Title,Subtitle,Content
Code of Ordinances,NULL,NULL
"CODE OF ORDINANCES CITY OF ALVARADO, TEXAS",NULL,"____________

            Published 2010 by Order of the City Council

            ____________

            OFFICIALS

            of the

            CITY OF

            ALVARADO, TEXAS

            AT THE TIME OF THIS RECODIFICATION

            ____________

            Dwayne ""Coach"" Richters

            Mayor

            ____________

            David Bayless

            Joe Sain

            Bruce Clark

            Tom Moore

            City Council

            ____________

            Donald Ives

            City Manager

            ____________

            Debbie Thomas

            City Secretary

            ____________

            Bryn D. Meredith

            City Attorney

            PREFACE

            This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent ordinances of
            the City of Alvarado, Texas.

            Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 2008 Code, as supplemented,
            and ordinances subsequently adopted by the City Council. The source of each section
            is included in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence
            of such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time
            with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back
            of this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 2008 Code, as supplemented,
            and any ordinance included herein.

            The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and
            the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage.
            Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant
            state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting
            forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.

            Chapter and Section Numbering System

            The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used
            in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts
            separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and
            the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter.
            Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered 1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same
            time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system
            for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would
            logically come between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and
            new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be
            placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions,
            may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive
            number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included
            by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical
            arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.

            Page Numbering System

            The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the
            left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume.
            The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion.
            In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates
            the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately
            to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical
            parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time,
            and their corresponding prefixes:

                              CODE

                              CD1:1

                              CODE APPENDIX

                              CDA:1

                              CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES

                              CCT:1

                              STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE

                              SLT:1

                              CODE INDEX

                              CDi:1

               &nbsp;

            Index

            The index has been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has been
            placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology, others
            in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local government
            officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the index itself
            which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular item in which the user
            is interested.

            Looseleaf Supplements

            A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental
            servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to
            date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected
            page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of
            copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages
            and deleting the obsolete pages.

            Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder
            of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility
            of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions.
            It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately
            upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be
            saved and filed for historical reference purposes.

            Acknowledgments

            This publication was under the direct supervision of Bill Carroll, Senior Code Attorney,
            and K. Barrington, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida.
            Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their
            sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.

            The publisher is most grateful to Mr. Don Ives, City Manager, and Ms. Debbie Thomas,
            City Secretary, for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work
            on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher have
            resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the active law of the City readily
            accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration
            of the city's affairs.

            Copyright

            All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation
            and the City of Alvarado, Texas. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited
            to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses;
            editor's notes; state law references; numbering system; code comparative table; state
            law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial
            purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation and the
            City of Alvarado, Texas.

            © Copyrighted material.
            
            Municipal Code Corporation and the City of Alvarado, Texas. 2010.

            ORDINANCE NO. 2010-009

            AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE CITY OF ALVARADO, TEXAS; PROVIDING
            OR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR
            THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING
            WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ALVARADO, TEXAS:

               Section 1
               
            . The Code entitled ""The Code of Ordinances, City of Alvarado, Texas,"" published by
            Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters 1 through 42, each inclusive, is adopted.

               Section 2
               
            . All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before March 15,
            2010, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference
            therein, are repealed.

               Section 3
               
            . The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed to revive any
            ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is
            repealed by this ordinance.

               Section 4
               
            . Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation
            of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued
            in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
            ($500.00) except for:

               (1)

               Violations of municipal ordinances that govern fire, safety, zoning, public health
               and sanitation, including dumping of refuse, vegetation and litter violations in which
               the maximum fine shall be two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each offense; and

               (2)

               Violations of traffic laws which are punishable as a Class C misdemeanor shall be
               punished by a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).

            However, no penalty shall be greater or lesser than the penalty provided for the same
            or similar offense under the laws of the state.

            Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall continue or
            occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless
            another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section,
            whether or not such penalty is reenacted by the amendatory ordinance. In addition
            to the penalty prescribed above, the City may pursue other remedies such as abatement
            of nuisances, injunctive relieve and revocation of licenses or permits.

               Section 5
               
            . Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to indicate the
            intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code shall be deemed
            to be incorporated into the Code, so that reference to the Code includes the additions
            and amendments.

               Section 6
               
            . Ordinances adopted after March 15, 2010, that amend or refer to ordinances that
            have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like
            provisions of the Code.

               Section 7
               
            . This ordinance shall become effective May 17, 2010.

            Passed and adopted by the Alvarado City Council this 17th day of May 2010.
            
            ___________
            
            Mayor

            ATTEST:

            ___________
            
            City Clerk"
SUPPLEMENT HISTORY TABLE,NULL,Content is too large for cell.
CODE OF ORDINANCES,NULL,NULL
Chapter 1,GENERAL PROVISIONS,NULL
Sec. 1-1.,How Code designated and cited.,"The ordinances in this and the following chapters and sections constitute the ""Code
               of Ordinances, City of Alvarado, Texas,"" and may be so cited. Such Code may also be
               cited as the ""Alvarado Code.""
               
               State Law reference— 
                  Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code, ch.
                  53."
Sec. 1-2.,Definitions and rules of construction.,"In this Code, and in all ordinances and resolutions passed by the city council, the
               following rules contained in this section shall be observed, unless the usage would
               be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the council:

               Generally. Terms shall be construed in the common and usual significance unless the contrary
               is clearly indicated.

               Agencies, officers. Any reference to any federal, state, or local agency or officer includes any successor
               agency or officer.

               City. The term ""city,"" ""the city"" or ""this city"" means the City of Alvarado, in Johnson
               County, Texas.

               City secretary, chief of police or other city officers or departments. The term ""city secretary,"" ""chief of police"" or words designating any other city
               officers or departments shall be construed to mean the city clerk, chief of police
               or such other municipal officers or departments, respectively, of the City of Alvarado,
               Texas.

               Code. The term ""the Code"" or ""this Code"" means the ""Code of Ordinances, City of Alvarado,
               Texas.""

               Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be done in a certain length
               of time before any proceeding or step in a proceeding shall be had, the day on which
               such notice is given, or such act is done, shall not be counted in computing the time,
               but the day on which such preceding or step in a proceeding is to be had shall be
               counted except as otherwise expressly provided in this Code.

               Council, city council or governing body. The term ""council,"" ""city council"" or ""governing body"" means the mayor and councilmembers
               acting as the city council of Alvarado, Texas.

               County. The term ""county"" means Johnson County, Texas.

               Delegation of authority. A provision that authorizes or requires a city officer or city employee to perform
               an act or make a decision also authorizes such officer or employee to act or make
               a decision through authorized subordinates.

               Gender. A term importing the masculine gender shall extend and be applied to females and
               to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.

               Highway or street. The term ""highway"" or ""street,"" when used in this Code, shall include any street,
               alley, highway, avenue, public place or square, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, underpass,
               overpass and causeway in the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.

               May. The term ""may"" is permissive.

               Month. The term ""month"" means a calendar month, except as otherwise specified in this Code.

               Must and shall. The terms ""must"" and ""shall"" are each mandatory.

               Number. Any term importing the singular number shall include the plural and any word importing
               the plural number shall include the singular.

               Oath. The term ""oath"" shall be construed to include any affirmation required by law. The
               terms ""swear"" and ""sworn"" shall be equivalent to the terms ""affirm"" and ""affirmed.""

               Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named in this Code, the hours shall mean Central Standard
               Time or Central Daylight Saving Time, whichever is in current use in the city.

               Owner. The term ""owner,"" applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
               tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of
               the whole or of the part of such building or land, except as otherwise defined in
               this Code.

               Person. The term ""person"" shall extend and be applied to associations, corporations, firms,
               partnerships, trustees, receivers, companies, assignees, administrators, executors,
               guardians, or other representatives, and bodies politic and corporate as well as to
               individuals.

               Personal property. The term ""personal property"" includes every species of property, except real property,
               as defined in this section.

               Preceding and following. The terms ""preceding"" and ""following"" mean next before and next after, respectively.

               Property. The term ""property"" includes real and personal property, or a mixture of the two,
               if the sense used so indicates.

               Real property. The term ""real property"" includes land, tenements and hereditaments.

               Roadway. The term ""roadway"" means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily
               used for vehicular traffic and that portion of a street used for drainage.

               Sidewalk. The term ""sidewalk"" means any portion of the street between the curb or the lateral
               lane of the roadway and the adjacent property line, all or a part of which is intended
               for the use by pedestrians.

               Sidewalk area. The term ""sidewalk area"" means the space between the lateral lane of the roadway
               and the boundary separating the public right-of-way and the adjacent private property.

               Signature or subscription. The term ""signature"" or ""subscription"" includes a mark when the person cannot write.

               State. The term ""the state"" or ""this state"" means the State of Texas.

               Time. Terms used in the past or present tense, include the future as well as the past and
               present.

               V.T.C.A. The abbreviation ""V.T.C.A."" refers to the divisions of Vernon's Texas Code Annotated, as amended or revised,
               or any successor statute.

               Written or in writing. The term ""written"" or ""in writing"" shall be construed to include any representation,
               other than oral, of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.

               Year. The term ""year"" means a calendar year, except as otherwise provided in this Code."
Sec. 1-3.,Catchlines and headings; history notes and state law references.,"(a)

               The headings of chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and catchlines of the
               several sections of this Code are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents
               of the chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections and shall not be deemed
               or taken to be titles of such chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections,
               nor as any part of the chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections, nor
               unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such chapters, articles,
               divisions, subdivisions and sections, including the headings and catchlines, are amended
               or reenacted.

               (b)

               The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this Code have
               no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. State law references that appear
               in this Code after sections or subsections, or that otherwise appear in footnote form,
               are provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect."
Sec. 1-4.,Severability of parts.,"It is the intention of the city council that the chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions,
               sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
               severable, and if any such part of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by
               the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality
               shall not affect any of the remaining parts of this Code, since the same would have
               been enacted by the city council without the incorporation in this Code of any such
               unconstitutional part."
ARTICLE II.,SPECIAL EVENTS,NULL
Sec. 4-19.,Definitions.,"The following words and phrases, when used in this article, shall, for the purpose
               of this article, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:

               Applicant means a person who has filed a written application for a special event or parade.

               Carnival means an event that includes amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds, booths
               for the conduct of games of skill, food dispensary facilities, and side-shows and/or
               a combination thereof.

               Circus means an event that includes performers, animals or other such means of entertainment
               and is performed in the open, in a tent, or in any other temporary structure, but
               does not include performances held inside a permanent building or on government-owned
               property.

               City-sponsored special event or parade means a special event or parade that the city council, by resolution, has:

                  (1)

                  Declared the city a sponsor or cosponsor of the event; and

                  (2)

                  Committed the city to significantly sharing in planning, initiating, financing, supporting,
                  and conducting the event.

               Committee review means a parade, special event or neighborhood block party application that requires
               evaluation by the special event review committee to determine if city services, permits
               and follow-up inspections will be required.

               Licensee means the applicant/promoter or person to whom the parade or special event permit
               has been issued.

               Neighborhood block party means the use of a residential street for a neighborhood social function where traffic
               control is required.

               Neighborhood block party permit means approval from the city or its designated representative for a social function.

               Nonprofit means not maintained or organized for profit, as recognized by the state and the
               federal tax code.

               Parade means the assembly of three or more persons whose gathering is the common design
               and purpose of traveling or marching in procession from one location to another location
               on a public thoroughfare or right-of-way for the purpose of advertising, promoting,
               celebrating, or commemorating a thing, person, date, or event or point of view on
               political, religious or social issues. Parade shall include runs, walks, relays, marathons,
               or similar events.

               Person means any individual, assumed name entity, partnership, association, corporation
               or other organization.

               Permit means the city's agreement giving the applicant/promoter permission to hold the special
               event, on the terms and conditions stated in the permit and subject to the rules,
               regulations, and requirements of this article.

               Promoter means the person seeking to hold the special event, including the promoter's employees,
               agents, affiliates, successors, permitted assigns, and other persons controlled by
               the promoter.

               Reimbursable costs means all costs and expenses incurred by the city for activities associated with
               staging of the event, including, without limitation, the following:

                  (1)

                  Utilities services provided to the special event, including all of the costs of installation,
                  maintenance, and connection.

                  (2)

                  Barricades and cones.

                  (3)

                  Special event parking.

                  (4)

                  Food services inspection.

                  (5)

                  Repair, maintenance and removal of facilities in the event of a failure of applicant/promoter.

                  (6)

                  Repair of streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks and other public property.

                  (7)

                  Police protection.

                  (8)

                  Fire protection.

                  (9)

                  Emergency medical service.

                  (10)

                  Garbage disposal and cleanup.

                  (11)

                  Traffic control.

                  (12)

                  Other direct costs associated with the special event or parade.

               Sidewalk means that portion of a street intended for the primary use of pedestrians that is
               located between the curb lines, or lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property
               lines.

               Special event means a temporary event or gathering, other than those events defined in this article
               as a neighborhood block party or a parade, using either private or public property,
               including a circus, carnival, fair, or other event, display or sale of objets d'art,
               Christmas tree sales, and/or performance of music or celebration of event on a political,
               religious or social issue which involves one or more of the following activities,
               except when the activity is for construction or house moving purposes only:

                  (1)

                  Closing a public street;

                  (2)

                  Blocking or restriction of public property, limiting the use of parks by the general
                  public, and streets;

                  (3)

                  Offer of merchandise, food, or beverages on public property or on private property
                  where otherwise prohibited by ordinance;

                  (4)

                  Erection of a tent on public property, or on private property where otherwise prohibited
                  by ordinance;

                  (5)

                  Installation of a stage, band shell, trailer, van, portable building, grandstand or
                  bleachers on public property, or on private property where otherwise prohibited by
                  ordinance;

                  (6)

                  Placement of portable toilets on public property, or on private property where otherwise
                  prohibited by ordinance;

                  (7)

                  Placement of temporary no parking signs in a public right-of-way; or

                  (8)

                  A fee or donation is charged for attendance or participation.

               Special event permit coordinator. The city secretary or his/her designee will act as the special events permit coordinator
               and be responsible for reviewing the initial special event or parade application,
               coordinating meetings between the applicant/promoter and city representatives, collecting
               special event permit fees, and enforcing the special events article. The special event
               permit coordinator shall chair the special event review committee.

               Special event/parade permit means approval from the city or its designated representative for a parade or special
               event.

               Special event review committee shall mean a committee consisting of the following representatives: police chief,
               public works director and city secretary and additional city staff as determined by
               the special event permit coordinator upon review of the special event application.
               The special event review committee shall review the parade, special event or neighborhood
               block party application and procure from the applicant/promoter such clarifications
               and additional information necessary for the approval, denial or revocation of the
               permit using the outlines within this article.

               Street means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained,
               when any part is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel."
Sec. 1-5.,Ordinances are cumulative; more stringent shall apply.,"Each ordinance in this Code is cumulative of and in addition to all other ordinances
               of the city on the same subject. Where Code provisions or ordinances conflict or overlap,
               whichever imposes the more stringent regulations or penalties, as the case may be,
               shall prevail."
Sec. 1-6.,Certain ordinances not affected by Code.,"(a)

               Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any
               ordinance or portion of any ordinance:

               (1)

               Annexing property into the city or describing the corporate limits.

               (2)

               Deannexing property or excluding property from the city.

               (3)

               Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance of bonds
               or other instruments of indebtedness.

               (4)

               Authorizing or approving any contract, deed or agreement.

               (5)

               Granting any specific right or franchise, or establishing the procedure for granting
               a right or franchise.

               (6)

               Making or approving any appropriation or budget.

               (7)

               Providing for the duties of city officers or employees not codified in this Code.

               (8)

               Providing for personnel regulations, salaries or other employee benefits.

               (9)

               Adopting or amending a comprehensive plan.

               (10)

               Levying or imposing any special assessments.

               (11)

               Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening,
               repairing or vacating any street, sidewalk or alley.

               (12)

               Establishing the grade of any street or sidewalk.

               (13)

               Establishing traffic regulations for specific streets.

               (14)

               Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.

               (15)

               Not codified in this Code that levies, imposes or otherwise relates to taxes, exemptions
               from taxes and fees in lieu of taxes.

               (16)

               Pertaining to rezoning property.

               (17)

               That is temporary, although general in effect.

               (18)

               That is special, although permanent in effect.

               (19)

               The purpose of which has been accomplished.

               (b)

               The ordinances or portions of ordinances designated in subsection (a) of this section
               continue in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in
               this Code."
Sec. 1-7.,Provisions deemed continuation of existing ordinances.,"The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as legislation
               previously adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed
               as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments."
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 14-177.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Abandoned motor vehicle means any motor vehicle which:

                  (1)

                  Is inoperable, is more than five years old, and has been left unattended on public
                  property for more than 48 hours;

                  (2)

                  Has remained illegally on public property for more than 48 hours;

                  (3)

                  Has remained on private property without the consent of the owner or person in charge
                  of the property for more than 48 hours;

                  (4)

                  Has been left unattended on the right-of-way of any city street or any designated
                  county, state, or federal highway for more than 48 hours;

                  (5)

                  Has been left unattended for more than 24 hours on the right-of-way of a turnpike
                  project constructed and maintained by the state turnpike authority division of the
                  state department of transportation or controlled access highway; or

                  (6)

                  Is considered an abandoned motor vehicle under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 644.153(r).

               Antique vehicle means a passenger car or truck that is at least 25 years old.

               Collector means a person who:

                  (1)

                  Owns one or more antique or special interest vehicles; and

                  (2)

                  Acquires, collects, or disposes of an antique or special interest vehicle or part
                  of an antique or special interest vehicle for personal use to restore and preserve
                  an antique or special interest vehicle for historic interest.

               Demolisher means any person whose business is to convert a motor vehicle into processed scrap
               or scrap metal, or otherwise to wreck or dismantle motor vehicles.

               In ordinary public view means that the vehicle or part thereof or the tarp or cover thereon is visible from
               any public right-of-way, or adjacent land, or the first floor level of a building
               thereon which is owned or occupied by a person other than the owner or occupant of
               the property on which the junked vehicle or part thereof is located or parked.

               Junked vehicle means a vehicle that is self-propelled and:

                  (1)

                  Displays an expired license plate or invalid motor vehicle inspection certificate
                  or does not display a license plate or motor vehicle inspection certificate; and

                  (2)

                  Is:

                  a.

                  Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled, or discarded; or

                  b.

                  Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:

                  1.

                  72 consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public property; or

                  2.

                  30 consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private property.

               Motor vehicle means a vehicle that is subject to registration under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code
               ch. 501.

               Special interest vehicle means a motor vehicle of any age that has not been changed from original manufacturer's
               specifications and, because of its historic interest, is being preserved by a hobbyist.

               (Code 2008, § 94.01; Ord. No. 99-036, 5-24-1999; Ord. No. 99-045, 8-23-1999; Ord.
               No. 2011-036, § 1, 9-19-2011;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-015, § 1, 9-18-2017
                  
               )"
Sec. 1-8.,"Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.","(a)

               Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any offense or act
               committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established
               before the effective date of this Code.

               (b)

               The adoption of this Code does not authorize any use or the continuation of any use
               of a structure or premises in violation of any city ordinance on the effective date
               of this Code."
Sec. 1-9.,Repeal of ordinances.,"The repeal of an ordinance or any portion thereof shall not repeal the repealing clause
               of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been previously repealed."
Sec. 1-10.,Amendments or additions to Code.,"All ordinances of a general and permanent nature, and amendments to such ordinances,
               hereinafter enacted or presented to the city council for enactment, shall be drafted,
               so far as possible, as specific amendments of, or additions to, the Code of Ordinances.
               Amendments to this Code shall be made by reference to the chapter and section of the
               Code which is to be amended, and additions shall bear an appropriate designation of
               chapter, article, division, subdivision, and section; provided, however, the failure
               so to do shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of such ordinances."
Chapter 2,ADMINISTRATION,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Type A general law municipality, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code §§ 5.001, 6.001 et
               seq.; provisions and powers of Type A general law municipalities, V.T.C.A., Local
               Government Code §§ 51.011—51.018; Type A municipality may adopt necessary ordinances
               not inconsistent with state law, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 51.012."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 2-1.,Type A general-law municipality.,"The city accepts the provisions of V.T.C.A., Local Government Code, ch. 6 (formerly title 28, chapters 1-10, Revised Civil Statutes of the State of Texas, as amended), regarding adoption of
               the Type A general-law form of government.

               (Code 2008, § 30.01)"
Sec. 2-58.,Meetings to be recorded.,"The city council shall tape record all meetings and keep copies of said tapes at city
               hall in accordance with provisions of Texas Open Records Act. City commissions and
               committees shall either tape record or keep written minutes of all meetings and keep
               copies of said minutes and/or tapes in accordance with provisions of Texas Open Records
               Act, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 552.

               (Code 2008, § 31.21)"
Secs. 16-71—16-96.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 1-11.,Supplementation of Code.,"(a)

               By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed
               whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A supplement to the Code shall
               include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city
               council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement
               and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be numbered
               so they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
               have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
               that, when they have been inserted, this Code will be current through the date of
               the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.

               (b)

               In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which have been repealed
               shall be removed from the Code.

               (c)

               When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency
               or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive
               changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar
               as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier
               may:

               (1)

               Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;

               (2)

               Provide appropriate catchlines for all divisions of this Code printed in the supplement,
               and make changes in such catchlines;

               (3)

               Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be inserted in this
               Code, and where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing section or
               other division numbers;

               (4)

               Change the words ""this ordinance"" or words of the same meaning to ""this chapter,""
               ""this article,"" ""this section,"" etc., as the Code may be, or to ""sections _____ to
               _____"" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code which embody
               the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the Code); and

               (5)

               Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of ordinance
               sections inserted into the Code;

               but, in no case, shall the codifier make any changes in the meaning or effect of ordinance
               material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code."
Sec. 2-77.,Introduction and action on ordinances.,"All ordinances and resolutions shall be in writing and shall be introduced by a member
               of the city council at an open meeting of the city council. It shall only be necessary
               to provide a brief explanation and read the caption of the ordinance or resolution
               unless a motion is made by any councilmember to read the entire ordinance or resolution.
               An ordinance must be adopted by a majority vote, unless otherwise required by other
               provisions of this Code or state law.

               (Code 2008, § 31.03)"
Sec. 1-12.,General penalty for violations of Code; continuing violations.,"(a)

               Whenever in this Code or any other ordinance of the city, an act is prohibited or
               is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in
               such Code or ordinance the doing of an act is required or the failure to do any act
               is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation
               of any such provision of this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine
               not exceeding $500.00, except for:

               (1)

               Violations of municipal ordinances that govern fire, safety, zoning, public health
               and sanitation, including dumping of refuse, vegetation and litter violations in which
               the maximum fine shall be $2,000.00 for each offense; and

               (2)

               Violations of traffic laws which are punishable as a Class C misdemeanor shall be
               punished by a fine not to exceed $200.00.

               However, no penalty shall be greater or lesser than the penalty provided for the same
               or similar offense under the laws of the state.

               (b)

               Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute
               a separate offense. Any violation of any provision of this Code of Ordinances which
               constitutes an immediate danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the public may
               be enjoined in a suit brought by the city for such purposes.

               (c)

               Unless otherwise specifically stated within the provisions of this Code, any violation
               of this Code or of any ordinance set forth herein that is punishable by a fine that
               does not exceed $500.00 does not require a culpable mental state, and a culpable mental
               state is hereby not required to prove any such offense.

               (d)

               Unless otherwise specifically stated within the provisions of this Code, any violation
               of this Code or of any ordinance set forth herein that is punishable by a fine that
               exceeds $500.00 shall require a culpable mental state of intentionally, knowingly,
               recklessly, or with criminal negligence.

               (e)

               In any prosecution in the municipal court of the city or of any other court of competent
               jurisdiction, a complaint charging a violation of this Code need not negate the existence
               of any affirmative defense but the existence of such may be raised by the defendant
               in any such prosecution by way of defense as provided in the state penal code.

               (f)

               A complaint charging a violation of any provision of this Code in the municipal court
               of the city or any other court of competent jurisdiction need not negative the existence
               of any exception but the existence of the same may be raised by the defendant in such
               prosecution by way of defense.

               (g)

               Whenever a corporation or association violates any provisions of this Code or other
               ordinance of the city, the president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, manager,
               or any agent or employee of such corporation or association shall be severally liable
               for the penalty prescribed for such violation.

            State Law reference— 
               Limitation on penalties, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 54.001; punishments, V.T.C.A.,
               Penal Code ch. 12."
Sec. 2-2.,Wards; boundaries.,"The city is divided into three wards for the purpose of electing members of the city
               council.

                  (1)

                  Ward 1 consists of all that area within the boundaries described as follows: From
                  the north city limit line south along Old Fort Worth Highway to U.S. Highway 67, thence
                  east to Spears Avenue, thence south along Spears Avenue to Atchley Avenue, thence
                  east along Atchley Avenue to its intersection with the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
                  Fe Railroad, thence north and east with said railroad to the east city limit, thence
                  north and west with such city limits to the place of beginning.

                  (2)

                  Ward 2 shall be all that territory within the city located south and east of a line
                  beginning at the intersection of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad and the
                  west city limits, thence along the south boundary to of such railroad to a point where
                  an extension of Russell Street would intersect the south line of such railroad; thence
                  north along such line and Russell Street to its intersection with Atchley Avenue;
                  thence east along Atchley Avenue to its intersection with the Atchison, Topeka and
                  Santa Fe Railroad; thence north and east with said railroad to the east city limits.

                  (3)

                  Ward 3 shall consist of all of that property located north of Ward 2 and West of Ward
                  1 as defined.

               (Code 2008, § 30.02; Ord. No. 92-018, 12-14-1992; Ord. No. 95-002, 1-30-1995)

            State Law reference— 
               Change of wards, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 22.040."
Sec. 2-3.,Official map.,"(a)

               Adopted. The map styled Alvarado City Limits Map August 2008 is hereby declared to define
               the boundaries of the city and is so adopted.

               (b)

               Required. A map showing the boundaries of the city, along with the field notes of the survey,
               shall be kept in the office of the city secretary. Whenever any territory is annexed
               into the city, the city map shall be immediately updated to include the newly annexed
               territory and copies shall be furnished to the county clerk's office and to the secretary
               of state at the time such annexation becomes effective.

               (Code 2008, §§ 30.10, 37.10; Ord. No. 2000-038, 8-21-2000)

            State Law reference— 
               Requirement for the map, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 41.001."
Sec. 2-78.,Recording ordinances and resolutions.,"Upon passage, all ordinances and resolutions shall be approved by the mayor, numbered,
               attested by the city secretary, and recorded by the city secretary in a book of ordinances
               or in the minutes for resolution.

               (Code 2008, § 31.04)"
Sec. 2-4.,Official newspaper designated.,"The Alvarado Star is hereby designated as the official newspaper of the city and shall
               continue to be the official newspaper of the city until another is duly designated,
               except that the contract between the city, represented by the mayor, and the Alvarado
               Post, represented by the publisher, may be repealed at any time by providing written
               notice to the publisher of said newspaper, after authorization of such notice by the
               city council. All ordinances, notices, and other matters required by law or by ordinance
               of the city to be published in the official newspaper of the city shall be published
               in said newspaper.

               (Code 2008, § 37.01; Ord. No. 2006-004, 11-21-2005)

            State Law reference— 
               Selection of official newspaper, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 52.004."
Sec. 2-5.,Membership in North Central Texas Regional Council of Governments authorized.,"The city council authorizes membership of the city in the North Central Texas Council
               of Governments and authorizes the payment of annual dues to said regional council
               of governments.

               (Code 2008, § 37.90)"
Sec. 2-6.,Membership in state municipal league authorized.,"The city council authorizes membership of the city in the state municipal league and
               authorizes the payment of annual dues to said association of local governments.

               (Code 2008, § 37.91)"
Secs. 2-7—2-34.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,CITY COUNCIL,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Secs. 2-35—2-56.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,MEETINGS,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Meetings, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 22.038; open meetings, V.T.C.A., Government
               Code ch. 551."
Sec. 2-57.,Procedures controlled by Robert's Rules of Order.,"Robert's Rules of Order shall control all questions on parliamentary procedure for
               city council meetings and meetings of all city commissions and committees.

               (Code 2008, § 31.20)

            State Law reference— 
               Authority of City to determine rules of its proceedings, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code § 22.038(c)."
Sec. 2-59.,Addressing the city council.,"(a)

               The city council shall allot as much as 30 minutes at regular meetings to hear persons
               who desire to make comments to the city council. This time may be extended at the
               discretion of the council.

               (1)

               Any person desiring to participate in this portion of the meeting shall at the beginning
               of the meeting indicate in writing a desire to speak and indicate in full the topic
               on which he or she desires to speak. Said person shall limit his comments to the topic
               indicated.

               (2)

               No person shall exceed five minutes in his presentation to the city council, unless
               granted additional time by the presiding officer.

               (3)

               Delegations of more than five persons shall appoint one person to present their views
               to the city council. If the delegation fails to appoint a spokesman for the group,
               the presiding officer shall appoint a spokesman for the group.

               (b)

               All persons addressing the city council shall do so from the podium designated by
               the city council.

               (c)

               Public participation is limited to the designated open forum of a meeting. At all
               other times during a city council meeting, the members of the audience shall not enter
               into discussion or debate on matters being considered by the city council, unless
               recognized by the presiding officer.

               (d)

               Specific, factual information or recitation of existing policy may be furnished in
               response to inquiries, but the city council shall not deliberate, discuss, or make
               any decision on any subject not on the agenda.

               (Code 2008, § 31.22)"
Secs. 2-60—2-74.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority to adopt ordinances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code chs. 51 and 52."
Sec. 2-75.,Regulatory authority.,"The city council shall have the power to pass, publish, amend, repeal, and enforce
               all ordinances, rules, and police regulations not contrary to the constitution and
               statutes of the state for the good government, peace, and order of the city and the
               trade and commerce thereof that may be necessary or proper to carry into effect the
               powers vested to local governments.

               (Code 2008, § 31.01)"
Sec. 2-76.,Style of ordinances and resolutions.,"The style of all ordinances shall be ""BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
               OF ALVARADO, TEXAS"" and the style of all resolutions shall be ""BE IT RESOLVED BY THE
               CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ALVARADO, TEXAS.""

               (Code 2008, § 31.02)"
Sec. 2-79.,Publication of ordinances.,"Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, or forfeiture shall after passage thereof
               be published in the official newspaper for a consecutive two day period or one issue
               if the official newspaper is a weekly paper, and such ordinances shall take effect
               and be in force from and after the publication thereof, unless otherwise provided.
               Ordinances not required to be published shall take effect from their passage, unless
               otherwise specified. In lieu of publication of the entire ordinance, the city council
               may provide for the publication of a descriptive caption or title, stating in summary
               the purpose of the ordinance and penalty for violation thereof.

               (Code 2008, § 31.05)

            State Law reference— 
               Similar provisions, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 52.011."
Sec. 2-80.,Veto power of mayor.,"(a)

               Every ordinance or resolution passed by the city council must be filed with the city
               secretary. The mayor may either sign or refuse to sign the ordinance or resolution.

               (b)

               If the mayor does not sign the ordinance or resolution, his objections must be set
               forth in writing and submitted to the city secretary within three days of the time
               the ordinance or resolution was filed. If the mayor's statement of objections is not
               filed within this three day period, the ordinance or resolution goes into effect without
               his signature.

               (c)

               If the mayor timely files a statement of objections to the ordinance or resolution,
               the city council shall reconsider the vote by which the ordinance or resolution was
               adopted. If a majority of the total number of councilmembers approve the ordinance
               or resolution on reconsideration, with the vote of each councilmember entered in the
               minutes of the meeting at which the vote was taken, the ordinance or resolution shall
               take effect.

               (Code 2008, § 31.06)

            State Law reference— 
               Similar provisions, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 52.003."
Sec. 2-81.,Approval of legal documents.,"The mayor shall sign, the city secretary shall attest to, and the city attorney shall
               approve as to form all legal instruments requiring the assent of the city, unless
               otherwise provided for by law or otherwise stipulated in this Code. See V.T.C.A.,
               Local Government Code § 52.003 for condition in which an ordinance goes into effect
               without mayor's signature.

               (Code 2008, § 31.07)"
Secs. 2-82—2-101.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Matters affecting public officers and employees, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch.
               141 et seq."
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 2-102.,Creation of departments.,"There shall exist such departments of the city as the council may create or abolish.
               The creation or the abolition of a department shall be by passage of a resolution
               of the council.

               (Code 2008, § 31.10)"
Sec. 2-103.,City council to provide for officers of city.,"The city council may provide for officers and agents of the city as it may from time
               to time direct to be appointed or elected.

               (Code 2008, § 36.01)

            State Law reference— 
               Other municipal officers, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 22.071."
Sec. 2-104.,Officers of city identified.,"The officers of the city shall include the following:

                  (1)

                  Secretary;

                  (2)

                  Attorney.

               (Code 2008, § 36.02; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-105.,Adoption of personnel rules and policies.,"Personnel rules and policies for the city are hereby adopted as set forth in the document
               entitled Personnel Rules on file in the office of the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 36.90; Ord. No. 2000-031, 6-26-2000)"
Secs. 2-106—2-123.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,CITY MANAGER,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               City manager, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 25.021 et seq."
Sec. 2-124.,Form of government.,"Pursuant to the election under V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 25, on May 6, 2000, the city operates under the city manager form of government and
               the city council shall appoint a city manager and by ordinance establish the city
               manager's salary.

               (Code 2008, § 30.03; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-125.,Salary and terms of employment established.,"The city manager's salary shall be $7,725.00 per month. All remaining terms of employment
               shall be established pursuant to a mutually acceptable employment agreement.

               (Code 2008, § 30.15; Ord. No. 2001-009, 12-11-2000; Ord. No. 2007-32, 9-24-2007; Ord.
               No. 2009-007, § 1, 2-14-2009; Ord. No. 2009-027, § 1, 8-17-2009)"
Sec. 2-126.,"Appointment, salary, removal, bond.","(a)

               The city council shall appoint a person to serve as city manager of the city.

               (b)

               The salary of the city manager shall be set by ordinance.

               (c)

               The city manager shall serve at the will of the city council and may be removed by
               majority vote.

               (d)

               The city manager must be bondable and must execute a bond issued by a surety company
               in the amount of $25,000.00 conditioned that the manager will faithfully perform the
               duties of manager. The cost of such bond shall be paid by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 36.13; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-127.,"Duties, powers.","(a)

               The city manager shall be the administrator and executive officer of the city. He
               shall have the following powers and duties:

               (1)

               Hire, discipline and terminate all employees who are not officers of the city, except
               for the municipal judge; provided, however, that the positions of public works director,
               chief of police, fire chief and fire marshal shall be filled by appointment of the
               city manager only with the prior approval of the city council.

               (2)

               Prepare job descriptions for all officers and employees of the city.

               (3)

               Prepare the annual budget and submit this with an anticipated current year-end financial
               condition and budgetary expenditure summary to the city council with a message describing
               important features and changes.

               (4)

               Administer the budget after adoption by the council, warning the council of pending
               shortfalls and over-expenditures in time to meet needs and/or make budgetary changes.

               (5)

               Keep the city council advised of the financial conditions and present and future needs
               of the city and make recommendations necessary to meet such needs. Keep the city council
               advised of available federal, state and other grants and administer grants as necessary
               and desirable.

               (6)

               Keep the city council informed on a timely basis of projects and other work of all
               city departments and current development within the city or outside the city to the
               extent the city is or will be affected.

               (7)

               Review benefits and pay levels and grades of all positions within the city as compared
               to those in other cities and private industry and recommend compensation and benefits
               required to attract and retain competent city workers.

               (8)

               Recommend changes to city ordinances necessary or expedient for the health, safety
               or welfare of the community, or for improvement of administrative services.

               (9)

               Supervise all employees subject to the city manager's authority and take action necessary
               to ensure that such employees do their jobs competently and that they do not violate
               policies and ordinances of the city.

               (10)

               Attend all city council meetings unless excused and be prepared to address questions
               on any matter on the agenda.

               (11)

               Supervise purchase of materials, supplies and equipment provided for in the budget
               for items requiring bidding or sealed proposals or make recommendations for cooperative
               purchasing or other lawful methods of purchase; all with a view to maximizing the
               value received by the city and reducing cost, all within the constraints of law.

               (12)

               After informing the city council in writing, authorize transfer of unneeded surplus
               in budgeted expenditure accounts to meet unanticipated needs.

               (13)

               Ensure enforcement of laws and ordinances of the city and enforce the requirements
               of franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city.

               (14)

               Investigate all complaints relating to the administration of the city and the actions
               or failures to act of any employee or department. Be available and courteous to all
               citizens in carrying out the business of the city.

               (15)

               Perform such other duties as may be required by the city council not inconsistent
               with the law or ordinances of the city.

               (b)

               The city manager shall not be employed by or affiliated with any business or organization
               (other than a church or civil organization) doing business with the city and shall
               hold no other office with any other governmental unit without permission of the city
               council.

               (Code 2008, § 36.14; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000; Ord. No. 2009-017, § 3, 6-15-2009)"
Secs. 2-128—2-152.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,CITY SECRETARY,"Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority to appoint and establish duties for city secretary, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code, § 22.071 et seq."
Sec. 2-153.,Office created.,"The office of city secretary is hereby created and shall receive such compensation
               as may be fixed by the city council. The city secretary shall be appointed by a majority
               vote of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 36.10)"
Sec. 2-154.,Bond required.,"The city secretary shall execute a bond, payable to the city, as required by law,
               conditioned that the city secretary will faithfully perform the duties of the office.
               The city council shall determine the amount of the bond at least annually. If the
               council fails to determine the amount of the bond for the succeeding year, the amount
               last prescribed shall continue to be the amount of bond required. Such bond shall
               be a corporate surety bond and the city shall pay all costs, premiums, and expenses
               connected therewith.

               (Code 2008, § 36.11)"
Sec. 14-22.,Impairing of drainageways prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place in any street, alley, drainage
               ditch, or gutter any trash, tin, shavings, refuse, or other matter whatsoever so as
               to prevent the free passage of water or cause same to stagnate therein. It shall likewise
               be unlawful for any person installing or repairing water, gas, or service pipes to
               leave any street, alley, drainage ditch, or gutter in such condition as to impair
               the drainage of same.

               (Code 2008, § 93.30)"
Sec. 2-155.,Duties.,"The city secretary shall attend each meeting of the city council and keep accurate
               minutes of the proceedings of the council in a book to be provided for that purpose.
               The city secretary shall also engross and enroll all resolutions and ordinances of
               the city council; keep the corporate seal, take charge of, preserve, and keep in order
               the books, records, papers, documents, files, and other records of the city; countersign
               all commissions issued to city officers and licenses issued, and keep a record or
               register thereof; and prepare all notices required under any state or federal law
               or ordinance of the city. The city secretary shall notify the state judicial council
               of the name of each person elected or appointed as mayor, municipal court judge, or
               clerk of a municipal court; such notification shall be accomplished within 30 days
               of the date of the election or appointment. The city secretary shall receive and securely
               keep all monies belonging to the city and make all payments for the same upon the
               order of the mayor and/or city council. The city secretary shall be the general accountant
               of the city and shall keep regular accounts of all receipts and disbursements for
               the city, each cause of receipt and disbursement, crediting accounts allowed by proper
               authority, and specifying the particular transaction to which such entries apply.
               The city secretary shall also render a full and correct statement of his receipts
               and payments to the city council at its first regular meeting of each month. He shall
               keep a register of bonds and obligations issued by the city and all evidence of debt
               due and payable to it and keep all contracts and agreements made by the city council.
               The city secretary shall also be responsible for holding municipal elections and conducting
               absentee voting as prescribed by state law and serve as clerk of the municipal court,
               unless otherwise prescribed by the city council. The city secretary shall also perform
               all such other duties as may be required by law, resolution, ordinance, or order of
               the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 36.12)"
Sec. 2-156.,Serves as treasurer.,"The city secretary shall serve as treasurer of the city and shall perform all duties
               of the treasurer as set forth in V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 22.075 and as assigned
               by the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 36.20)"
Secs. 2-157—2-180.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,CITY ATTORNEY,NULL
Sec. 2-181.,Office created; appointment and termination.,"The office of city attorney is created. The city attorney shall be appointed and/or
               terminated by the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 36.40)"
Sec. 2-182.,Authority to contract.,"The city council may contract with a private firm or person in private legal practice
               to perform the duties and fill the office of city attorney.

               (Code 2008, § 36.41)"
Secs. 2-183—2-192.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 2-193.,Creation of commissions and committees.,"The city council may by ordinance create such commissions and committees as it determines
               to be in the best interest of the city and its inhabitants.

               (Code 2008, § 31.11)"
Secs. 2-194—2-203.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,LIBRARY BOARD,"Footnotes:  --- (7) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Libraries and archives, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 441."
Sec. 2-204.,Established; composition; appointment of members.,"There is hereby created a board to be known as the Alvarado Library Advisory Board
               which shall be appointed by the city council. The board shall be comprised of seven
               members. Three of the original seven members shall be appointed for two-year terms
               and four shall be appointed for three-year terms. Subsequent members shall serve for
               three-year terms and until the successors are duly appointed and qualified. No person
               shall serve more than two consecutive terms.

               (Code 2008, § 98.01; Ord. No. 2002-046, 9-23-2002)"
Sec. 2-205.,Ex officio.,"The library director shall serve as an ex officio member without voting power, but
               with the right to be present and address the board on all issues before the board.

               (Code 2008, § 98.02; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-206.,"Holding of other city office, compensation.","No member of the library advisory board shall hold any other public office of honor,
               trust or profit in the government of the city. Members shall serve without pay and
               shall have such duties as are conferred in this chapter or as may hereafter be conferred
               by ordinance or resolution.

               (Code 2008, § 98.03; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-207.,General duties.,"It shall be the duty of the board to:

                  (1)

                  Act in an advisory capacity to the city council in all matters pertaining to the library;

                  (2)

                  Study and encourage development of adequate library facilities for city residents;

                  (3)

                  Recommend policies for approval by the city council;

                  (4)

                  Advise in the coordination of library service with the programs of other governmental
                  agencies and voluntary organizations from time to time;

                  (5)

                  Assist in interpreting the policies and functions of the library to the public; and

                  (6)

                  Solicit for the library gifts, revenues, bequests, endowments of money or property
                  subject to the approval and acceptance of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 98.04; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-208.,Organization; meetings.,"The board is authorized to enact bylaws and rules and to elect officers. The board
               shall comply with the Texas Open Meetings Act, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 551,
               for all of its meetings.

               (Code 2008, § 98.05; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Secs. 2-209—2-239.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,SENIOR/COMMUNITY CENTER ADVISORY BOARD,NULL
Sec. 2-240.,Established; composition; appointment of members.,"There is hereby created a board to be known as the Alvarado Senior/Community Center
               Advisory Board which shall be appointed by the city council. The board shall be comprised
               of nine members. Four of the original nine members shall be appointed for two-year
               terms and five shall be appointed for three-year terms. Subsequent members shall serve
               for three-year terms and until successors are duly appointed and qualified. No person
               shall serve more than two consecutive terms.

               (Code 2008, § 99.01; Ord. No. 2002-046, 9-23-2002)"
Sec. 2-241.,Ex officio.,"The senior/community center director shall serve as an ex officio member without voting
               power, but with the right to be present and address the board on all issues before
               the board.

               (Code 2008, § 99.02; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-242.,"Holding of other city office, compensation.","No member of the senior/community center advisory board shall hold any other public
               office of honor, trust or profit in the government of the city. Members shall serve
               without pay and shall have such duties as are conferred in this Code or as may hereafter
               be conferred by ordinance or resolution.

               (Code 2008, § 99.03; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-243.,General duties.,"It shall be the duty of the board to:

                  (1)

                  Act in an advisory capacity to the city council in all matters pertaining to the senior/community
                  center;

                  (2)

                  Study and encourage development of adequate senior/community center facilities for
                  city residents;

                  (3)

                  Recommend policies for approval by the city council;

                  (4)

                  Advise in the coordination of senior/community center service with the programs of
                  other governmental agencies and voluntary organizations from time to time;

                  (5)

                  Assist in interpreting the policies and functions of the senior/community center to
                  the public; and

                  (6)

                  Solicit for the senior/community center gifts, revenues, bequests, endowments of money
                  or property subject to the approval and acceptance of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 99.04; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Sec. 2-244.,Organization; meetings.,"The board is authorized to enact bylaws and rules and to elect officers. The board
               shall comply with the Texas Open Meetings Act, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 551,
               for all of its meetings.

               (Code 2008, § 99.05; Ord. No. 2002-030, 4-22-2002)"
Secs. 2-245—2-266.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,FINANCE,"Footnotes:  --- (8) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Finance Code ch. 1 et seq.; finances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 101 et seq."
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 2-267.,Fiscal year designated.,"The fiscal year of the city is hereby designated as beginning with October 1 of each
               year and ending September 30 the next ensuing year thereafter.

               (Code 2008, § 34.01)

            State Law reference— 
               Authority to prescribe a fiscal year, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 101.042."
Sec. 2-268.,Purchasing authority of department heads.,"The city manager is authorized to make purchases not requiring bids of such purchases
               that are within the approved city budget.

               (Code 2008, § 34.70; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-269.,Investment of idle funds.,"The city secretary is hereby authorized and directed to invest any idle funds of the
               city with the state in the Tex-Pool Fund or with any FDIC insured financial institution
               in the form of certificates of deposit.

               (Code 2008, § 34.71; Ord. No. 2004-003, 10-20-2003)

            State Law reference— 
               Public Funds Investment Act, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 2256."
Secs. 2-270—2-288.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,AUDITS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS,NULL
Sec. 2-289.,Financial reporting of agencies funded by city.,"The city council may condition funding of volunteer or other groups requesting city
               support on availability of adequate periodic financial information listing income
               and expenditures by type, amount, and date.

               (Code 2008, § 34.21)"
Sec. 2-290.,Forfeiture proceedings.,"(a)

               All money received from forfeitures by the city police department or from forfeitures
               of any other law enforcement agency shall be immediately deposited into a special
               bank account maintained in the city's authorized depository. Such funds shall be subject
               to the same signature requirements as other city accounts and payment authorizations
               shall be documented by the police department by case number or other reference to
               an eligible expenditure.

               (b)

               In the case of monies required for the payment of informants or other criminal investigatory
               matters, the police chief shall be responsible for request documentation and for keeping
               the amounts withdrawn to the minimum required for the particular prospective activity.
               He shall also be responsible for the redeposit of unused amounts. The police department
               case files shall reflect amounts paid for drugs, informants, or other criminal investigatory
               activity with appropriate safeguards for the protection of individuals or the criminal
               investigatory process. Sums not required for informants or drug buys may be expended
               only after receiving budget approval.

               (c)

               The city secretary shall maintain a separate account for the special forfeiture account.
               Amounts budgeted for drug buys or payment of informants shall be deposited into the
               special account where forfeiture funds are paid.

               (Code 2008, § 34.22)

            State Law reference— 
               Disposition of abandoned or unclaimed property, Vernon's Ann. C.C.P., art. 18.17 et
               seq.; forfeiture of contraband, Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch. 59."
Sec. 2-291.,Gifts to city.,"(a)

               Employees and employee organizations are prohibited from accepting gifts, donations,
               and other gratuities for city paid service.

               (b)

               Persons desiring to make gifts and donations may make such gifts and donations directly
               to the city subject to any desired restrictions on the use of such funds.

               (c)

               Donations to or for the police department shall be deposited into the general fund
               and used for police-related activities.

               (Code 2008, § 34.23)"
Secs. 2-292—2-316.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,ABANDONED AND SEIZED PROPERTY,"Footnotes:  --- (9) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Disposition of abandoned or unclaimed property, Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. art. 18.17 et
               seq.; forfeiture of contraband, Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch. 59."
Sec. 2-317.,"Abandoned, seized, or recovered property to be sold.","All abandoned, stolen, or recovered property of every kind which shall remain unclaimed
               with the city for a period of at least 60 days without being claimed or reclaimed
               by the owners, whether known or not, may be sold at public auction. However, these
               provisions do not apply to motor vehicles, outboard motors, motorboats, and other
               vessels as defined in V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 365 (Texas Litter Abatement
               Act); to disposition of abandoned or unclaimed property under Vernon's Ann. C.C.P.
               art. 18.17 et seq.; to forfeiture of contraband under Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch. 59;
               to beer, whisky, or wine; to property being held as evidence in a pending case; or
               when a magistrate orders destruction of the property.

               (Code 2008, § 37.20)"
Sec. 2-318.,Notice of unclaimed or abandoned property; holding period.,"(a)

               The city manager or his designee shall give notice to the owner of any personal property
               that remains unclaimed for 30 days. If the owner is known, notice shall be given by
               certified mail to the last known address of the owner of the property and include
               a description of the property, the name and address where the property may be redeemed,
               and a statement indicating that if the owner does not claim the property within 30
               days from the date of the notice, the property will be sold. If the owner is unknown
               or the owner's address is unknown, then the city manager or his designee shall publish
               a notice of the description of the property, name of owner, if known, and where the
               property can be redeemed.

               (b)

               If the property is not claimed within 30 days from the date the notice is published,
               it may be sold.

               (Code 2008, § 37.21; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-319.,Public auction of unclaimed property.,"(a)

               Before selling any unclaimed property, the city manager or his designee shall post
               a notice of the sale, and shall cause a copy of the notice of public sale to be published
               in the official newspaper of the city at least 21 days before the date of the sale.
               The notice of the sale shall describe the property and designate the time, date, and
               place of sale.

               (b)

               The city manager or his designee shall conduct the public auction at which such property
               is to be sold to the highest bidder. An accurate statement of each piece of property
               sold, the sale price, and the name and address of the bidder shall also be kept. The
               city manager or his designee shall provide a copy of such report to the city secretary
               as soon as possible after the close of sale. A bill of sale of the property shall
               be executed by the city to the purchaser.

               (Code 2008, § 37.22; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-320.,Disposition of surplus property.,"(a)

               Property which is owned by the city and is determined to be surplus property may be
               sold through sealed bids or public auction. A minimum price may be established prior
               thereto. The city manager or his designee shall conduct the public auction at which
               such property is to be sold to the highest bidder. An accurate statement of each piece
               of property sold, the sales price, and the name and address of the bidder shall also
               be kept. The city manager or his designee shall provide a copy of such report to the
               city secretary as soon as possible after the close of sale. A bill of sale of the
               property shall be executed by the city to the purchaser.

               (b)

               In lieu of selling surplus property of the city, the city manager may offer the property
               in trade for other property as he/she considers to be in the best interest of the
               city.

               (c)

               Emergency vehicles, which are owned by the city and are determined to be surplus property,
               may be sold or exchanged in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section
               or, in the alternative, may be sold directly to another unit of local government or
               volunteer fire department. The city is not required to request sealed bids or hold
               a public auction to conduct a sale pursuant to this subsection; provided, however,
               that the sale does not constitute a gift of public property.

               (Code 2008, § 37.23; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000; Ord. No. 2006-013, 1-23-2006)"
Sec. 2-321.,Proceeds credited to general fund.,"All funds received on account of the sale of unclaimed, seized, or surplus property
               shall be delivered to the city secretary who shall deposit the proceeds of the sale
               in the general fund of the city, after deducting any costs of the sale.

               (Code 2008, § 37.24)"
Sec. 2-322.,Worthless property.,"Any property which has been listed and offered for sale under the provisions of this
               chapter and for which no price or sum has been offered, if deemed in the opinion of
               the city manager to be worthless and without value, shall be disposed of in such manner
               as he shall prescribe. A written description of all property destroyed or disposed
               of as worthless or without value shall be filed with the city secretary, together
               with the date and manner of disposal.

               (Code 2008, § 37.25; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000)"
Sec. 2-323.,Disposition of controlled substances.,"All controlled substances, marijuana, drug paraphernalia, and money seized by the
               police department shall be taken into custody and disposed of in accordance with V.T.C.A.,
               Health and Safety Code §§ 481.159, 481.160.

               (Code 2008, § 37.26)"
Sec. 2-324.,Firearms and weapons.,"(a)

               Abandoned, stolen, and recovered.

               (1)

               All abandoned, stolen, or recovered firearms or other weapons and ammunition that
               have remained unclaimed or unidentified by the rightful owner thereof for a period
               of 60 days and which are not being held as evidence pending a case filed by record
               shall be destroyed by a police officer in the presence of the mayor and/or police
               chief. Before any such firearms or weapons shall be destroyed, any case numbers, make,
               model, type, and serial numbers, if available, shall be prepared and kept on record
               along with the scheduled time, date, place, and manner of destruction.

               (2)

               Any handguns, rifles, and/or shotguns that have been classified as antiques or collector's
               items as may be determined by the police chief or by a firearms expert selected by
               the police chief can be sold in the public interest in accordance with section 2-319 to any person holding a federal firearms license, provided that their sale is not
               restricted by law.

               (3)

               Any weapon or ammunition that the police chief has determined to be serviceable or
               usable may be kept for use by the police department.

               (b)

               Disposition of seized weapons. Weapons seized in connection with an offense involving the use of a weapon or an
               offense under V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 46 shall be held by the police department,
               subject to the following provisions, unless:

               (1)

               The weapon is a prohibited weapon identified in V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 46, in which
               event Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. art. 18.18 applies; or

               (2)

               The weapon is alleged to be stolen property, in which event Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch.
               47 applies.

               (Code 2008, §§ 37.27, 37.28)"
Chapter 4,AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS,NULL
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Secs. 4-1—4-18.,Reserved,NULL
Sec. 4-20.,Permit required; exemptions.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he engages in, participates in, aids, or commences
               a parade, special event or neighborhood block party within the city without first
               making written application for and receiving a permit from the city.

               (b)

               No permits shall be required under this section for the following:

               (1)

               The armed forces of the United States of America, the military forces of the state,
               political subdivisions of the state, and the forces of the police and fire departments
               acting within the scope of their duties.

               (2)

               A city-sponsored special event or parade.

               (3)

               A funeral procession proceeding by a vehicle under the most reasonable route from
               a funeral home, church, or residence to the place of service or place of internment.
               Any funeral procession traversing through the city limits that wishes to remain together
               without regard to traffic controls must be led by a funeral escort, whose vehicle
               shall have and use emergency flashers or lights in accordance with the Texas Transportation
               Code.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-012
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 4-22.,Consideration of application.,"(a)

               When considering approval of an application, the special event review committee may
               consider (without limitation) the following factors:

               (1)

               The proposed event will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement
               of traffic, both vehicular and pedestrian;

               (2)

               The proposed event will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers
               of the city to properly police the event that customary protection to the city will
               not be available;

               (3)

               The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles will not unduly interfere with
               proper fire and ambulance service to all portions of the city;

               (4)

               The conduct of the event is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property
               or to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;

               (5)

               The event is for a meaningful purpose and is of sufficient interest to the general
               public to justify the inconvenience it may cause;

               (6)

               The event has been planned to ensure general safety, health, and welfare of all persons
               is provided as is reasonably possible.

               (b)

               No person shall be discriminated against on the grounds of race, color, national origin
               or disability.

               (c)

               Permit shall be subject to the applicant/promoter receiving approval from the special
               event review committee prior to the start of the event for (without limitations) the
               plans described below.

               (d)

               The city, by approving such plans, assumes no liability or responsibility therefor.

               (e)

               In addition to the application, each applicant shall submit the following detailed
               plans:

               (1)

               Facilities. A comprehensive set of plans and specifications relating to all temporary facilities
               to be constructed or utilized for the event. All required permits relating to the
               temporary use of real property, buildings and structures must be obtained from the
               building inspections department.

               (2)

               Fire protection. A comprehensive plan for prevention of fires and for adequate protection of persons
               and property in the event of a fire, including, without limitation, adequate exits,
               fire extinguishers, adequate access for fire trucks and emergency vehicles. The fire
               protection plan shall be coordinated through and approved by the office of the fire
               chief.

               (3)

               Food and beverage service. A comprehensive plan to provide food and beverage concessions. The city code enforcement
               department shall approve the plan.

               (4)

               Emergency medical service. A comprehensive plan to provide adequate emergency medical services at the event.

               (5)

               Parking, assembly or disassembly of parade participants. A comprehensive plan to provide adequate parking for the proposed event, including
               written permission by all of the owners of land to be used for the event.

               (6)

               Police protection. A comprehensive plan providing for adequate safety, security, traffic and crowd control
               in connection with the event. The plan shall be coordinated through and approved by
               the police chief.

               (7)

               Promotional. If applicable, comprehensive plan to promote, market, and advertise the event. Signs
               and banners shall be permitted through the building inspection department.

               (8)

               Sanitation plan. A comprehensive plan to ensure that the highest standards of cleanliness and sanitation
               are maintained at the event including adequate restroom facilities and appropriate
               refuse containers to accommodate refuse generated by its patrons and operations and
               a plan to empty the containers frequently so as to prevent overflow.

               (9)

               Emergency services staffing plan. Emergency medical service, police protection, and fire protection levels as deemed
               necessary to ensure safety for the event by the police chief, the fire chief, or their
               designee, at the applicant/promoter's expense."
Sec. 4-23.,"Approval or denial of a parade, special event or neighborhood block party permit.","The special event permit coordinator shall make a recommendation to the mayor regarding
               the approval of the permit. The mayor shall then approve or disapprove the permit.
               If approved, the special event permit coordinator shall issue the permit to the applicant."
Sec. 4-24.,Appeal of denial of permit.,"If permit is disapproved, the applicant may appeal such decision to the city council.
               An appeal fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the
               city council from time to time shall be paid to the special event permit coordinator
               prior to the city council hearing the appeal to partially defer the administrative
               costs of handling the appeal. If the city council approves the application for the
               permit, the special event permit coordinator shall then issue the permit to the applicant."
Secs. 6-4—6-24.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,COURT PROCEEDINGS,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, adopted September 17, 2012, set out provisions for use herein.
               At the editor's discretion those provisions were treated as repealing art. II, §§
               6-25—6-31 and enacting a new art. II, §§ 6-25—6-29. Former art. II, pertained to animal
               grievances and was derived from Code 2008, §§ 90.10—90.16."
Sec. 4-21.,"Application for special event, parade or neighborhood block party.","(a)

               A person desiring to hold a parade, special event or neighborhood block party shall
               apply for a permit by filing with the special event permit coordinator a written application
               upon a form provided for that purpose. Each parade, special event permit or neighborhood
               block party application shall be accompanied by a permit fee as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time before
               its consideration. The fee shall be nonrefundable regardless of whether the permit
               is granted or denied. An application for a parade, special event or neighborhood block
               party regulated under this article shall be made not less than 30 calendar days prior
               to the date and time of the commencement of the parade or special event. The special
               event permit coordinator and/or the special event review committee may waive the 30
               calendar day filing requirements for a parade or special event if the special event
               permit coordinator and/or the special event review committee determines that the application
               can be processed in less than 30 calendar days, taking into consideration the type
               of parade or special event.

               (b)

               An application for a special events permit must contain the following information:

               (1)

               The name, address, telephone number, date of birth, driver's license number and email
               address of the applicant/promoter, and, of any other persons responsible for the conduct
               of the parade, special event or neighborhood block party;

               (2)

               A description of the parade, special event or neighborhood block party and the requested
               dates and hours of operation of the event;

               (3)

               The estimated number of persons participating in the parade, special event or neighborhood
               block party and a set of detailed plans showing the area or route to be used during
               the parade, special event or neighborhood block party including proposed structures,
               tents, fences, barricades, signs, banners, and restroom facilities;

               (4)

               The time and location of street closings, if any;

               (5)

               Details of the offer of merchandise or serving of food or alcoholic beverages at the
               special event;

               (6)

               Details of how the applicant/promoter will clean up the area used after the event;

               (7)

               The parade's commencement and termination time, the specific route to be traveled,
               and the starting and termination points;

               (8)

               The estimated number, if any, of animals, animals and riders, animal-drawn vehicles,
               floats, motor vehicles, motorized displays, and marching units or organizations such
               as, but not limited to bands, color guards, and drill teams;

               (9)

               Application fees required by the city;

               (10)

               Documentation of prior approval by the parks and recreation department to use park
               facilities for a special event, if applicable;

               (11)

               Proof of nonprofit status, if applicable; and

               (12)

               A copy of contract, agreement, or details outlining arrangement between applicant
               and promoter, if any."
Sec. 4-25.,Indemnification.,"An applicant/promoter for a parade, special event or neighborhood block party permit
               must execute a written agreement to indemnify the city and its officers and employees
               against all claims of injury or damage to persons or property, whether public or private,
               arising out of the special event. This indemnification shall include the following
               statement:

                  ""Licensee shall defend, protect and keep city forever harmless and indemnified against
                  and from any penalty, or any damage, or charge, imposed for any violation of any law,
                  ordinance, rule or regulations arising out of the use of the property by the licensee,
                  whether occasioned by the neglect of licensee, its employees, officers, agents, contractors,
                  or assigns or those holding under licensee. Licensee shall at all times defend, protect,
                  and indemnify and it is the intention of the parties hereto that licensee hold city
                  harmless against and from any and all loss, cost, damage, or expense, including attorney's
                  fees, arising out of or from any accident or other occurrence on or about the property
                  causing personal injury, death or property damage resulting from use of property by
                  licensee, its agents, employees, customers and invitees, except when caused by the
                  negligence or willful misconduct of the city, its officers, employees or agents, and
                  only then to the extent of the proportion of any fault determined against city for
                  its willful misconduct. Licensee shall at all times defend, protect, indemnify and
                  hold city harmless against and from any and all loss, cost, damage, or expense, including
                  attorney's fees, arising out of or from any and all claims or causes of action resulting
                  from any failure of licensee, its officers, employees, agents, contractors or assigns
                  in any respect to comply with and perform all the requirements and provisions hereof."""
Sec. 4-26.,Offenses.,"A person commits an offense if he knowingly:

                  (1)

                  Commences or conducts a parade or special event without the appropriate permits or
                  fails to comply with all direction and conditions of such permit and all applicable
                  laws and ordinances;

                  (2)

                  Conducts a neighborhood block party without the appropriate permits or fails to comply
                  with any requirement or condition of a permit or this article."
Chapter 6,ANIMALS,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Livestock, V.T.C.A., Agriculture Code ch. 141 et seq.; animal drives, V.T.C.A., Local
               Government Code § 215.025; animals at large, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 215.026;
               breeding animals, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 215.027; health and safety of
               animals, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 821 et seq.; regulation of animals,
               V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 822."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 6-1.,Definitions.,"For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings herein
               ascribed to them:

               Abuse means to mistreat through intent or neglect any animal, fowl, livestock, or wildlife
               in a manner that causes or is likely to cause stress or physical injury, or as otherwise
               stated in this chapter.

               Animal means any living creature other than a homo sapiens. Unless indicated otherwise,
               the term shall include livestock, fowl, and wildlife as well as dogs, cats, and other
               creatures commonly owned as pets.

               Animal control office (ACO) means the office of the City of Alvarado which is primarily responsible for enforcement
               of regulations regarding animals.

               Animal control officer means any employee of the city attempting to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

               Animal shelter, shelter means a facility designated by the city council to be used for the impoundment of
               animals, fowl, livestock, and wildlife taken up by the ACO officers.

               At large means not confined inside the owner's house or to the premises of the owner by a
               suitable and substantial fence of sufficient strength and height to prevent escape
               therefrom or secured on such premises by a leash of sufficient strength to prevent
               escape from the premises and so arranged that the animal will remain upon the premises
               with the leash stretched to full length in any direction. An animal shall not be considered
               at large when held and controlled by a person by means of a leash or chain of proper
               strength and length to control the actions of the animal or while confined within
               a vehicle.

               Authority means the local health authority.

               Brand means a mark made on the skin of any animal which indicates the ownership of the
               animal, typically used with livestock.

               Cat means the male and female of any domesticated member of the feline species of animals.

               Circus means a commercial variety show featuring animal acts for the public.

               Commercial animal enterprise means a business that involves the sale, trade, or performance of animals, or involves
               providing a service by animals or for animals, including pet stores, kennels, and
               similar businesses, as well as the breeding of animals for sale or trade. A commercial
               animal enterprise involves the exchange of money or some other item of value.

               Dangerous animal means any animal that:

                  (1)

                  Makes an unprovoked attack on a person or other animal that causes bodily injury and
                  occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the animal was being kept and that
                  was reasonably certain to prevent the animal from leaving the enclosure on its own;
                  or

                  (2)

                  Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which the animal was
                  being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the animal from leaving the
                  enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to reasonably believe that the
                  dog will attack and cause bodily injury to that person.

               Day means work day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.

               Distance between structures means the most direct line distance between the nearest points of the referenced
               structures.

               Dog means both male and female animals of the Canis familiaris (canine) species.

               Fish means any of the cold-blooded animals that extract oxygen from water through the
               use of gills.

               Fowl means all birds, including chickens, turkeys, pheasants, quail, guineas, geese, ducks,
               peafowl, and other domestic feathered creatures and nondomestic feathered creatures,
               regardless of age or sex.

               Harbor means to feed, shelter, or maintain for three or more days.

               Livestock means, regardless of age, sex, or breed, horses and all equine species, cows and
               all bovine species, sheep and all bovine species, llamas, goats and all caprine species,
               and pigs and all swine species.

               Local health authority means the senior animal control officer.

               Marine animal means any animal, other than a mammal or bird, that lives in a marine environment.

               Neutered means any animal, male or female, rendered incapable of breeding or being bred.

               Owner means any person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal of the canine species.

               Performing animals means any spectacle, display, act, or event in which animals, fowl, livestock, or
               wildlife perform.

               Potbellied pig means a variety of swine that is no more than 26 inches in height at shoulder level
               when fully grown, has short ears, and a straight tail. No swine shall be considered
               a potbellied pig if its weight exceeds 120 pounds, or it is registered with a licensed
               breeder.

               Qualifying reptile means any reptile except poisonous or venomous reptiles, cobras and their allies
               (elapidae, hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (the pit vipers (cortiladae, viperidae);
               Boonsland and Kirtland's tree snakes, gila monsters (heleodermatidae); and crocodiles,
               alligators, and their allies (order loricata).

               Restrained means any animal, fowl, livestock, or wildlife secured by a leash of some sort or
               confined within the property limits of its owner.

               Tag means a vaccination tag attached to a collar as required by this chapter or some
               other permanent identifying device attached to a collar or to an animal.

               Tattoo means a permanent mark which is made on the skin of any animal by puncturing the
               skin and inserting indelible color and which is used to show ownership.

               Vaccination means an injection of a vaccine for rabies administered by a licensed veterinarian.

               Veterinarian means any person duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine by the state board
               of veterinary examiners, or who is exempt from such licensing.

               Wild animal or wildlife means any nondomestic creature which is of a species which is wild by nature, which
               can normally be found in a wild state, and which is not naturally tame or gentle,
               or which because of its size, vicious nature, or other characteristics constitutes
               a danger to human life or property. Such creatures shall include but not be limited
               to all animals prohibited by the state or federal law and shall include but not be
               limited to the following animals:

                  (1)

                  Class mammalia: order carnivora, family felidae, except commonly accepted domesticated
                  cats and hybrids involving same; family canidae, except domesticated dogs and hybrids
                  involving same; family mustelidae, except ferrets, family procyonidae; family ursidae;
                  order primata; and order chiroptera.

                  (2)

                  Poisonous or venomousreptiles, cobras and their allies (elapidae, hydrophiidae); vipers
                  and their allies (cortiladae, viperidae); Boonsland and Kirtland's tree snakes, gila
                  monsters (heleodermatidae); and crocodiles, alligators, and their allies (order loricata).

                  (3)

                  Brown recluse (loxosceles) and black widow (latrodectus) spiders.

               Zoological park or zoo means any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying or exhibiting one
               or more species of animals, fowl, livestock, and wildlife.

               (Code 2008, § 90.01; Ord. No. 2012-030, § 1, 9-17-2012;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-029, § 1, 10-17-2016
                  
               )"
Sec. 6-2.,Enforcement; penalty.,"(a)

               The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by animal control officers, police
               officers, park rangers, and such other persons as are designated by the city.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, obstruct, resist, or oppose
               any animal control officer or other person authorized to enforce the provisions of
               this chapter while such person is apprehending an animal or performing any other duties.
               It shall be unlawful to take or attempt to take any animal from any animal control
               officer or from any vehicle used by the officer to transport any animal, or to take
               or attempt to take any animal from the animal shelter or other kennel for confinement
               area used to impound an animal without proper authorization.

               (c)

               In all instances of a violation of any provision of this chapter, whether the animal
               is impounded or not, the owner or keeper of such animal may be cited by an officer
               who has authority to enforce this chapter for any violation of this chapter.

               (d)

               This chapter is declared to be necessary as a public health measure and violation
               shall be punished as provided in this Code.

               (e)

               The animal control officer or such officer's authorized representative, or any police
               officer may enter upon private property (except residential structures or enclosed
               roofed structures) in an effort to capture any unrestrained or nuisance animal accused
               of violating any section of this chapter. The animal control officer, such officer's
               designated representative, or any police officer may issue a citation for any violation
               of this chapter. If the person being cited is not present, the city or animal control
               officer may send the citation to the alleged offender by registered or certified mail.

               (Code 2008, § 90.02; Ord. No. 2001-033, 6-11-2001)"
Sec. 6-3.,Animal advisory committee.,"(a)

               There is created the animal advisory committee of the city consisting of five members
               who are nominated and appointed by the city council at large.

               (b)

               Committee members shall serve for a term of office to commence upon their date of
               appointment by the city council at large and to continue for a term coexistent with
               the term of office of the mayor.

               (c)

               In accordance with V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 823.005, members shall meet
               the following qualifications:

               (1)

               One member shall be a licensed veterinarian.

               (2)

               One member shall be a municipal official.

               (3)

               One member shall represent an animal welfare organization.

               (4)

               One member shall have duties which include the daily operation of an animal shelter.

               (5)

               One member shall be a resident of the city.

               (d)

               The committee shall meet at least three times a year and shall comply with the Texas
               Open Meetings Act for all of its meetings.

               (e)

               It is the responsibility of the committee to assist the city council in complying
               with the requirements of V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 823.

               (Code 2008, § 90.03; Ord. No. 2002-047, 11-23-2002)"
Sec. 6-25.,Municipal court.,"The municipal court shall hear appeals from the decisions or actions of the authority
               or the animal control officer, as provided for in section 6-85 and section 6-118. The municipal court shall also hear complaints involving animals or the care of
               animals initiated by neighborhoods as provided in section 6-26. In all of its actions, the court shall seek to devise circumstances under which
               an owner may keep an animal; however, the court shall also give consideration to the
               safety of the neighborhood and the health and welfare of the animal.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-26.,Initiation of proceedings.,"(a)

               Appeals. To appeal the action or decision of the authority or the animal control officer,
               a person must file notice of appeal with the city secretary within 15 days of receiving
               notice of the action or decision. The municipal court shall hear all appeals as if
               there had been no prior disposition in the case. All decisions of the animal control
               officer made under this chapter shall be regarded as final, unless timely appealed.

               (b)

               Complaints. Persons residing within 600 feet of a person who harbors or owns an animal in violation
               of section 6-85 or section 6-118 may initiate an action before the court regarding the animal for violations of those
               sections by filing a petition signed by the residents of ten percent of the households
               within that area. Such petition shall contain the name, address, and telephone number
               of each person signing it, the total number of households within the prescribed area,
               and statements setting forth specific facts to support the allegations it contains
               regarding the animal in question. If the petition does not contain this information
               or if 50 percent or more of those signing the petition fail to attend the hearing,
               the court may hold the petition invalid and dispense without any further action. The
               petition shall also designate an individual as the neighborhood contact.

               (c)

               Animal control officer complaint. The animal control officer may initiate a complaint in the municipal court regarding
               any animal for violation of section 6-85 or section 6-118 of this chapter if the animal control officer determines that the situation requires
               stronger remedial measures than the animal control officer is authorized to impose.
               Otherwise, the animal control officer shall impose such remedial measures it deems
               necessary after full investigation of the matter.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-53.,Proof of vaccination; dismissal; fine.,"(a)

               The failure of a dog to wear a vaccination tag on a collar shall be prima facie evidence
               of the failure to vaccinate the animal as required by this chapter.

               (b)

               If convicted by the municipal court of failing to have an animal vaccinated, a person
               shall be fined a minimum of $100.00. If a person presents the court with proof of
               vaccination within seven days of his conviction, the judge may reduce the fine to
               $25.00.

               (Code 2008, § 90.22)"
Sec. 6-27.,Procedures before municipal court.,"(a)

               The municipal court shall hold a hearing as set forth in subsection (c) at such time
               as each matter is docketed by the clerk of the municipal court according to normal
               docketing procedures.

               (b)

               Notice of a hearing before the municipal court under this section shall be given to
               the person who harbors or owns the animal at issue at least 72 hours prior to the
               hearing, unless the person waives his right to that notice. Notice shall also be given
               to the authority, the animal control officer, and neighborhood contact, if applicable,
               at least 72 hours prior to the hearing, unless notice is waived. The neighborhood
               contact shall be responsible for notifying the other persons who signed the petition
               if applicable.

               (c)

               The burden of proof in any appeal or any action initiated by the animal control officer
               shall be upon the authority or the animal control officer. In any action initiated
               by the petition of a neighborhood, the burden of proof shall be on those filing the
               petition. This burden may be sustained by a preponderance of the evidence.

               (d)

               All service of notices or statements may be by personal service or by certified mail,
               return receipt requested.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-28.,Remedial requirements.,"(a)

               Where the municipal court or the animal control officer finds against the person who
               is found to have harbored or owned an animal in violation of section 6-85, section 6-118 or article VI, the court or the animal control officer may place certain remedial
               requirements upon such person. The remedial requirements may include one or more of
               the following items:

               (1)

               The owner shall not permit the animal to go outside the kennel or pen unless such
               animal is securely leashed with a leash no longer than four feet in length which is
               in the physical control of at least one person. Such animal may not be leashed to
               inanimate objects. Additionally, such animal must be muzzled by a muzzling device
               sufficient to prevent the animal from biting persons or other animals.

               (2)

               The animal shall be securely confined in an enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except
               when on a leash and muzzled or when confined indoors. Such pen or kennel must have
               secure sides and a secure top attached, and have sides that measure six feet from
               the ground. The structure must be locked with a key or combination lock if an animal
               held to be dangerous is within the structure. The structure must have a secure floor
               attached to the sides of the structure and the sides of the structure must be embedded
               in the ground no less than two feet. Any structure erected to house the animal must
               comply with all zoning and building regulations. Such structures must also be adequately
               lighted and ventilated and be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.

               (3)

               The owner may be required to relocate on his property the confinement area in which
               the animal is kept so that the animal does not annoy, disturb, or in some other manner
               offend neighbors.

               (4)

               The animal may not be kept on a porch, patio, or in any part of a house or other structure
               that will allow the animal to exit such building or structure on its own volition.
               In addition, no such animal, except a cat, may be kept in a house or structure when
               the windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the animal from exiting
               the structure.

               (5)

               The owner of an animal held to be dangerous pursuant to article VI, shall display
               in prominent places on the premises where the animal is kept a sign easily readable
               by the public which states ""beware of dangerous animal."" A similar sign shall also
               be posted on the kennel or pen of the animal.

               (6)

               The court or the animal control officer may require the owner to remove the animal
               from the city.

               (7)

               The court, but not the animal control officer, may require that the owner acquire
               insurance in an amount deemed reasonable to insure against bodily injury or property
               damage caused by an animal.

               (8)

               The court, but not the animal control officer, may require that the person and animal
               engage in training necessary to eliminate the problem. The court may designate a specific
               training program to be followed or utilized.

               (9)

               The court, but not the animal control officer, may prohibit the person from acquiring
               and keeping within the city any other animal for a period of time of up to five years.
               It may also require the person to sell, give away, or otherwise humanely dispose of
               the animal at issue in the hearing.

               (10)

               The court, but not the animal control officer, may require that an animal which is
               being returned to an owner or which an owner shall be allowed to keep within the city
               be spayed or neutered.

               (11)

               The court, but not the animal control officer, may order that an animal shall be humanely
               destroyed.

               (b)

               In requiring that remedial requirements be followed, the court or the animal control
               officer shall also state a timeframe within which the owner must comply with the required
               action. For good cause, the time period to comply may be extended by the court or
               the animal control officer.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-29.,Return of an animal.,"(a)

               If an animal is in the custody of the animal control officer, an inspection of the
               premises where the animal is to be kept may be made prior to the animal's return,
               if such is necessary to determine if the remedial requirements have been met and the
               owner consents to the inspection. The animal control officer shall have the right
               to inspect such premises in the future at reasonable times to ensure continued compliance
               with the remedial requirements with the consent of the owner.

               (b)

               As a condition of returning an animal which has been in the custody of the animal
               control officer to its owner, the court or the animal control officer may require
               that all or a portion of the expenses incurred by the animal control officer to keep
               such animal be paid by the owner.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 2, 9-17-2012)"
Secs. 6-30—6-50.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,RABIES CONTROL,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Rabies, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 826."
Sec. 6-51.,Vaccination.,"(a)

               All dogs, cats and other household pets four months of age or over within the city
               shall be immunized against rabies annually by a licensed veterinarian by means of
               any standard vaccine as approved by the U.S. government for the prevention of rabies.
               The licensed veterinarian who administers such vaccine shall issue to the owner or
               the person having such animal vaccinated a certificate of vaccination, stating the
               name of the owner, the description of the animal, and the date of vaccination and
               kind of vaccine used. He shall also issue for dogs a metal tag with the veterinarian's
               office address and the year of vaccination stamped thereon.

               (b)

               The metal tag shall be securely fastened in some manner to the dog at any time the
               animal is not confined to the owner's property, and it shall be unlawful for any person
               to remove such metal tag from any dog.

               (c)

               It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to own, keep, possess, harbor
               or allow to remain upon the premises under his control, any animal, without having
               such animal immunized against rabies as required by subsection (a) of this section.

               (d)

               This section shall not apply to fish, birds, ungulates or any of the following list
               of animals: hamsters, guinea pigs, rabbits, rats, mice, gerbils, or any other animal
               other than a dog or cat which in the opinion of the licensed veterinarian would be
               endangered by a rabies vaccination.

               (e)

               In the event of loss or destruction of the original tag provided for in this section,
               the owner of the dog shall obtain a duplicate tag.

               (Code 2008, § 90.20; Ord. No. 2001-033, 6-11-2001)

            State Law reference— 
               Rabies vaccination, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 826.021 et seq."
Sec. 6-52.,Vaccination of impounded animals.,"(a)

               All animals released to an owner from the pound shall be immediately vaccinated against
               rabies in accordance with the provisions of this article or the owner thereof shall
               present a veterinarian's certificate showing a current vaccination.

               (b)

               In order for the owner of an animal not vaccinated and registered in accordance with
               the provisions of this article to obtain the release of the animal, such owner must
               sign a statement giving the name of the owner and the address where such animal shall
               be immediately confined, and stating he will have the animal vaccinated in accordance
               with the provisions of this chapter. Such vaccination certificate shall be presented
               to the animal shelter within seven days of release. Failure to have such animal immediately
               vaccinated and a certificate presented shall be grounds for immediate return of the
               animal to the animal shelter and such animal may be destroyed immediately or otherwise
               disposed of. The failure to immediately comply shall constitute a misdemeanor which
               may be punished by a fine as established in this Code. Refusal to show a certificate
               of vaccination shall constitute prima facie evidence of such failure.

               (Code 2008, § 90.21)"
Sec. 6-54.,Counterfeiting and destruction of tags and certificates.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to counterfeit a rabies vaccination tag or certificate.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy a rabies vaccination tag
               or certificate.

               (Code 2008, § 90.23)"
Sec. 6-55.,Reporting rabid animals or rabies exposure.,"(a)

               It shall be the duty of all animal owners, veterinarians, physicians, or any other
               person to report to the ACO all cases of rabies with which he comes in contact or
               to which his attention has been directed. This report shall be made immediately upon
               diagnosis or suspicion of a case of rabies.

               (b)

               Any person having knowledge of an animal bite or scratch to an individual or to another
               animal by an animal which the person suspects is rabid shall report that incident
               to the ACO within 24 hours.

               (Code 2008, § 90.24)

            State Law reference— 
               Reports of rabies, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 826.041."
Sec. 6-56.,Animal bites and scratch reports.,"(a)

               Any person who is bitten or scratched by an animal shall report that fact to the ACO
               within 24 hours. If the person bitten or scratched is a minor under the age of 17,
               the parent or guardian of such minor, if he has knowledge of the incident, shall report
               that fact to the ACO within 24 hours.

               (b)

               A person who owns, keeps, harbors, or allows an animal to remain on-premises under
               his control shall report to the ACO within 24 hours any incident where such animal
               bites or scratches any person.

               (c)

               If the bite or scratch was to any person, the animal committing the act shall be submitted
               to the ACO for quarantine. This duty to submit the animal to quarantine shall apply
               to any person who owns, keeps, harbors, has possession of, or allows an animal to
               remain on-premises under his control. If convicted of violating this provision, a
               minimum fine of $100.00 shall be imposed by the municipal court. In addition, no license
               or permit to keep animals within the city shall be issued to any person so convicted
               for a period of five years.

               (d)

               Subsection (c) of this section shall not apply if the person who owns, keeps, harbors,
               has possession of, or allows an animal to remain on-premises under his control produces
               to the ACO a current valid vaccination certificate for the animal in question.

               (Code 2008, § 90.25)"
Sec. 6-57.,Contents of required reports.,"When an individual is placed under a duty to report an incident in which an animal
               has bitten or scratched some person or some animal, or to report an animal known or
               suspected to be rabid, that report to the ACO shall include, if the person making
               the report knows, the following information:

                  (1)

                  The location where the bite or scratch occurred;

                  (2)

                  The location where the animal which committed the act or which is known or suspected
                  to have rabies or have been exposed to rabies can be located;

                  (3)

                  The name and address of any person who was bitten or scratched;

                  (4)

                  The name and address of any person who owns, keeps, harbors, or has control over the
                  premises where the animal committing the act normally can be found; and

                  (5)

                  The names and addresses of the persons who own, keep, or harbor any other animal exposed
                  to rabies.

               (Code 2008, § 90.26)"
Sec. 6-58.,Quarantine and release.,"(a)

               When an animal is required to be placed in quarantine, the animal shall be submitted
               for quarantine at the animal shelter. Only with the prior approval of the local health
               authority, senior ACO, may the animal be held in quarantine at any other location.

               (b)

               Any animal quarantined shall be held for a period of ten days from the date of the
               bite. The animal shall not be released from quarantine until such release has been
               approved by the local health authority (senior ACO).

               (c)

               Upon release of an animal from quarantine, if the ownership of the animal is known,
               such owner has 48 hours to claim the animal. If the ownership of the animal is unknown,
               the animal may be disposed of as provided in sections 6-169 and 6-170 without waiting for an additional 72 hours.

               (Code 2008, § 90.27)

            State Law reference— 
               Quarantine of animals, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 826.042."
Sec. 6-59.,Submission of brain for rabies diagnosis.,"(a)

               If the animal which bit or scratched a person is a wild animal, the animal shall be
               humanely destroyed in such a manner that the brain is not mutilated. The brain shall
               then be submitted to a laboratory certified by the state department of health for
               rabies diagnosis.

               (b)

               If an animal which is being quarantined becomes ill, it may be humanely destroyed
               in such a manner that the brain is not mutilated. The brain shall then be submitted
               to a laboratory certified by the state department of health for rabies diagnosis.
               The brain of each animal which dies while in quarantine shall also be submitted for
               rabies diagnosis.

               (Code 2008, § 90.28)"
Sec. 6-60.,Cost of quarantine or rabies diagnosis.,"(a)

               If at the end of the required quarantine period, a quarantined animal is found to
               be free of rabies, the local health authority (senior ACO) shall order the release
               of the animal to the owner, if the rabies vaccination provisions of this article have
               been complied with and any impoundment fees have been paid by such owner.

               (b)

               If a brain is submitted to the state department of health for rabies diagnosis, the
               cost of removing the brain and shipping it shall be paid by the owner of the animal.

               (c)

               The local health authority (senior ACO) may order that all impoundment fees for the
               quarantine be paid by the person bitten or scratched if:

               (1)

               The animal has a rabies vaccination certificate;

               (2)

               The animal was on property under the control of the animal's owner when the bite or
               scratch occurred; and

               (3)

               The bite or scratch occurred when the animal was acting to defend its owner or the
               property, or after provocation.

               Similarly, if the animal is a wild animal, the local health authority (senior ACO)
               may order that all fees be paid by the person who was bitten or scratched. This order
               may be appealed to the court as set out in section 6-25, except that the appeal must be filed within one day and the court shall hear the
               case as soon as possible thereafter. Failure to pay the fees as ordered shall serve
               as a basis to deny, suspend, or revoke any license required under this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 90.29)"
Sec. 6-61.,Local rabies control authority.,"For purposes of V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 826.017, the animal control officer
               shall serve as the local rabies control authority of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 90.30; Ord. No. 2007-012, 5-21-2007)"
Secs. 6-62—6-80.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,REGULATIONS,NULL
Sec. 6-91.,"Animals, fowl, and reptiles prohibited from municipal buildings without permit.","It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal, fowl, or reptile under their
               care and control to enter any municipal facility without permission from the city,
               with the exception of service dogs.

               (Code 2008, § 90.50)"
Sec. 6-92.,Animals and fowl prohibited in establishments selling food.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any live animal or fowl to enter or remain
               inside any establishment in the city where food is sold excepting registered support
               dogs, as defined in V.T.C.A., Human Resources Code § 121.002.

               (Code 2008, § 90.51)"
Sec. 6-81.,Running at large.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps, harbors, or otherwise has control
               over any animal, livestock, fowl, reptiles, or wildlife within the city to allow or
               permit such animal, livestock, fowl, reptiles, or wildlife to run or be at large within
               the city. The prohibition against an animal running at large shall not apply to cats.

               (b)

               The ACO may impound any animal observed to be at large, whether the animal is on public
               or private property. If the ACO observes an animal on property which is owned by a
               person other than its owner, and follows the animal back to the property of its owner,
               the ACO may impound the animal and/or issue a citation for the animal running at large.

               (c)

               Proof that an animal was found at large in violation of this chapter, together with
               proof that the defendant was the owner of such animal at the time, shall constitute
               prima facie evidence that the defendant allowed or permitted the animal to be at large.

               (Code 2008, § 90.40)

            State Law reference— 
               Certain dogs and coyotes prohibited from running at large, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety
               Code §§ 822.007, 822.012; estrays, V.T.C.A., Agriculture Code ch. 142; animals running
               at large on highways, V.T.C.A., Agriculture Code § 143.101 et seq."
Sec. 6-82.,Animal in heat.,"Any person who owns, harbors, or keeps any female dog or cat, during the period that
               such animal is in heat, or in estrus, shall keep such dog or cat in a secured area
               that prevents a male dog or cat from having access to such female, except for controlled
               breeding permitted by the owner of the female. Additionally, the female dog or cat
               shall not be chained or tethered in a manner that prevents her from defending herself
               or from avoiding a male.

               (Code 2008, § 90.41)"
Sec. 6-83.,Animal defecation.,"(a)

               It is unlawful for the owner or person in control of an animal to allow or permit
               such animal to defecate on any public property or improved private property, other
               than that of the owner of the animal. That the animal was at large at the time it
               defecated on any property shall constitute prima facie evidence that the owner or
               person in control of the animal allowed or permitted the animal to so act. This section
               shall not apply to a service dog.

               (b)

               It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the owner or person in
               control of the animal immediately removed and cleaned up such animal's feces from
               the public or private property.

               (Code 2008, § 90.42)"
Sec. 6-84.,Wild animals or wildlife.,"(a)

               No person shall possess, keep, or have care, custody, or control of a wild animal
               or wildlife within the city, except as provided in this section.

               (b)

               All persons, including commercial animal enterprises, shall be prohibited from selling,
               giving, transferring, or importing into the city any wild animal.

               (c)

               This section shall not apply to approved zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions,
               or circuses. Nor shall this section apply to primary and secondary schools, colleges
               and universities, zoological parks owned or operated by a governmental entity, or
               any animal assisting physically handicapped persons.

               (d)

               It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that the animal being kept
               was an infant or injured animal which was not capable of surviving on its own. Once
               the animal is capable of surviving on its own, the animal must be released to the
               ACO.

               (e)

               Any wild animal which is found running at large may, at the discretion of the ACO,
               be impounded or destroyed upon sight.

               (Code 2008, § 90.43)"
Sec. 6-85.,Nuisance animals.,"(a)

               As used in this section, a ""nuisance animal"" shall be defined as any animal that commits
               any of the acts listed herein:

               (1)

               Molests or chases pedestrians or passing vehicles, including bicycles;

               (2)

               Makes unprovoked attacks on other animals of any kind;

               (3)

               Is repeatedly at large, specifically three or more times within any 12-month period;

               (4)

               Damages private or public property;

               (5)

               Repeatedly defecates on property not belonging to or under the control of the owner,
               specifically three or more times within any 12-month period;

               (6)

               Repeatedly barks, whines, howls, crows, crackles, or makes any noise excessively and
               continuously, and such noise materially disturbs or annoys a person of ordinary sensibilities,
               specifically three or more times within any 12-month period; or

               (7)

               Is unconfined when in heat.

               (b)

               It is unlawful to create, allow, or harbor a nuisance animal. Any person who creates,
               allows, or harbors a nuisance animal is deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
               is subject to a fine pursuant to section 1-12.

               (c)

               Persons residing within 600 feet of a person who harbors or keeps an animal that they
               believe to be a nuisance may initiate an action before the municipal court by filing
               a sworn complaint detailing the alleged nuisance animal's actions.

               (d)

               A nuisance animal is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.

               (e)

               A continuing public nuisance is defined as an irresponsible action of ownership or
               control of an animal that endangers the public health, public safety or public welfare;
               an action that offends the public morals; or an action that endangers life or health,
               gives unreasonable offense to the senses, or obstructs the reasonable and comfortable
               use of another's property. A continuing public nuisance shall include allowing a nuisance
               animal to remain unabated.

               (f)

               The ACO may investigate any report of a perceived nuisance animal, and may interview
               witnesses as he may determine necessary. If he determines that a nuisance animal exists
               and a continuing public nuisance exists, he may impound the nuisance animal that is
               the source of the continuing public nuisance and he shall initiate an action before
               the municipal court by filing a sworn complaint detailing the alleged nuisance animal's
               actions.

               (g)

               Upon an action initiated pursuant to subsection (c) or an action initiated by the
               ACO pursuant to subsection (f), the municipal court shall set the matter for a hearing
               to determine if the animal complained of constitutes a nuisance animal and is the
               source of a continuing public nuisance and to make a disposition determination based
               on the necessity to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of the community.

               (h)

               The municipal court shall notify the nuisance animal owner or the person in control
               of the nuisance animal of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The municipal
               court shall give written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing to:

               (1)

               The owner of the animal(s) or person in control of the animal(s); and

               (2)

               The person who made the sworn complaint.

               (i)

               Notice shall be mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
               mailing address of the owner or person in control of the animal, or delivered in person
               at least ten business days prior to the hearing.

               (j)

               If the municipal court determines that the animal is a nuisance, and that is the source
               of a continuing public nuisance, the municipal court may enter an order disposing
               of the animal in any of the following ways:

               (1)

               Continue impoundment of the nuisance animal that is the source of a continuing public
               nuisance and authorize the adoption of the animal, except that the owner, his/her
               agents or representatives, or family members may not adopt the nuisance animal determined
               to be a continuing public nuisance.

               (2)

               Continue impoundment and authorize the humane destruction of the nuisance animal that
               is the source of a continuing public nuisance.

               (3)

               Removal of the nuisance animal determined to be the source of a continuing public
               nuisance from the city within ten business days of the municipal court's order.

               (4)

               Release of the nuisance animal back to the owner and an order requiring that the owner
               meet certain remedial requirements found in section 6-28 to correct the conduct of the nuisance animal.

               (k)

               If the municipal court determines that the animal complained of does not constitute
               a nuisance animal, the court shall order the animal to be immediately released to
               the owner or the person in control of the animal.

               (l)

               The failure to comply with an order from the municipal court shall be an offense and
               each day thereafter that such person fails to comply with an order from municipal
               court shall constitute a separate offense.

               (m)

               Upon information received from the ACO that the owner or person in control of a nuisance
               animal has failed to comply with the order, the municipal court shall set a hearing
               and shall provide notice pursuant to subsections (h) and (i) to determine if the owner
               or person in control of a nuisance animal has failed to comply with the municipal
               court's order.

               (n)

               If the owner or person in control of a nuisance animal fails to comply with certain
               remedial requirements or to remove such animal pursuant to the order of the court,
               such animal may be ordered by the municipal court to be impounded and put up for adoption
               or humanely destroyed.

               (o)

               The owner or person in control of a nuisance animal must report the disposition and
               exact address or relocation of such animal to the ACO in writing within ten business
               days after the expiration date for removal of such animal from the city. Each day
               thereafter that such information is not provided shall constitute a separate offense.

               (p)

               The ACO shall be authorized to obtain a search and seizure warrant for the purpose
               of enforcing this chapter.

               (q)

               The owner of an animal or the person making the complaint may appeal the decision
               of the municipal court in the manner provided for the appeal of cases from the municipal
               court.

               (r)

               If the animal complained of pursuant to this section meets the definition of a dangerous
               animal found in section 6-138, the provisions governing dangerous animals shall control.

               (Code 2008, § 90.44; Ord. No. 2013-036, § 1, 8-19-2013)"
Sec. 6-86.,Honeybees.,"No person shall construct, place, or maintain any beehive within 300 feet of any residence
               other than that of the owner, except with the consent of the occupants of all such
               residences.

               (Code 2008, § 90.45)

            State Law reference— 
               Bees, V.T.C.A., Agriculture Code ch. 131."
Sec. 6-87.,Pens and coops.,"(a)

               All fowl and rabbits shall be kept within a pen, coop, or hutch. A fenced yard shall
               not qualify as a pen or coop.

               (b)

               Any person keeping or harboring any animal, other than livestock, shall locate any
               pen, coop, hutch, or other housing at least 50 feet from any residence, excluding
               the residence of the person keeping or harboring the animals.

               (Code 2008, § 90.46)"
Sec. 6-114.,"Duty to report accident involving animals, fowl, or livestock.","Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle within the city, strikes any animal
               shall stop at once, render such assistance as may be safe and practicable, and shall
               report the accident to the police department. It shall be an affirmative defense to
               any violation under this section that the incident occurred while the operator was
               responding to an emergency and that the incident was reported as soon as possible.

               (Code 2008, § 90.61)"
Sec. 6-88.,Livestock.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having care, custody, or control over
               any livestock to:

               (1)

               Ride or allow any type of livestock upon any public school grounds, public park property,
               or municipal grounds within the city except between curbs of streets or areas specifically
               designated as bridle paths or other designated riding or exhibiting areas for animals.

               (2)

               Ride or allow any type of livestock upon the property of another within the city except
               with the prior consent of the owner or person in charge of such property.

               (3)

               Permit any livestock to be or remain during the night secured by a stake, or secured
               in any manner other than by enclosing such animal in a pen, corral, or barn sufficient
               and adequate to restrain such livestock.

               (b)

               On streets, horses shall be ridden as close as practicable to the curbs and in no
               event shall horses be allowed on controlled access highways.

               (c)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor livestock within the city in
               a pen or other enclosure situated at any point closer than 200 feet to any residence,
               excluding the residence of the person keeping or harboring the livestock.

               (d)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any livestock within the city
               in a pen or other enclosure which has less than 600 square feet of area for each head
               of livestock.

               (Code 2008, § 90.47)"
Sec. 6-90.,Other animal nuisances.,"(a)

               No person shall willfully or knowingly harbor or keep on his premises or elsewhere
               any animal or pigeon or fowl of any kind that makes or creates an unreasonable disturbance
               of the neighbors or the occupants of adjacent premises or people living in the vicinity
               thereof, or suffer or permit such animal to make or create disturbing noises by howling,
               barking, bawling, crowing, or otherwise. A person shall be deemed to have willfully
               and knowingly violated terms of this section if such person shall have been notified
               by the neighbors or the animal control officer or any police officer of such disturbance
               and shall have refused for a period of 24 hours to correct such disturbance and prevent
               its recurrence.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any animal, pigeon, or fowl in such
               a manner that residents of adjacent or nearby property are subjected to obnoxious
               odors.

               (c)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any animal in any area which constitutes
               a nuisance by reason of repeated trespasses on public property, attacks on other animals,
               or damage to public or private property.

               (d)

               In addition to the foregoing conduct constituting a misdemeanor, the same shall also
               be deemed a nuisance and may be enjoined in district court.

               (Code 2008, § 90.49)"
Sec. 6-89.,Animals and fowl in residential areas; limitations.,"(a)

               No more than four dogs or four cats more than four months of age shall be kept on
               any lot in any residential zoning district in the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
               in no event shall more than four dogs or four cats more than four months of age be
               kept per residential household, regardless of the number of contiguous lots on which
               the residential household is located.

               (b)

               No more than five of any other type of animal, fowl, or reptile more than six months
               of age shall be kept in any area of the city, unless zoned agricultural. A greater
               number of qualifying reptiles may be allowed if application for registration is made
               with the city and approved by city council. The fees for registration of reptiles
               shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city
               council from time to time. The annual fee shall be paid before the issuance of a certificate
               of registration. The registration shall expire one year following the issuance date.
               The animal control officer or designee shall inspect the site listed on the certificate
               twice per year. The city council shall be authorized to revoke the certificate of
               registration upon recommendation of the animal control officer.

               (c)

               No livestock shall be kept on any lot or tract of less than 40,000 square feet. For
               each 40,000 square feet of lot or tract area, an owner may keep one head of livestock
               more than one year of age, with the exception that no livestock shall be allowed within
               100 feet of any residence on adjacent property.

               (d)

               A person commits an offense if he possesses or harbors a live rooster (male of the
               domestic fowl) on any premises within the city unless zoned agriculture.

               (Code 2008, § 90.48; Ord. No. 2001-047, 11-24-2001; Ord. No. 2003-027, 7-21-2003;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-029, § 2, 10-17-2016
                  
               )"
ARTICLE VI.,DANGEROUS ANIMALS,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3, adopted September 17, 2012, amended art. VI, §§ 6-137—6-141,
               in its entirety by enacting a new art. IV, §§ 6-137—6-146. Former art. VI, pertained
               to similar subject matter and was derived from Code 2008, § 90.70—90.74; Ord. No.
               2001-047, adopted November 24, 2001, and Ord. No. 2006-009, adopted November 21, 2005."
Sec. 6-166.,Impoundment.,"It shall be the duty of the local health authority (senior ACO), ACO, or its agents
               to seize and impound in the animal shelter any and all animals, fowl, livestock, and
               wildlife found in violation of any provision of this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 90.80)"
Sec. 6-93.,Complaints related to barking dogs or crying cats.,"(a)

               Whenever any person shall complain to the police department or the ACO that a dog
               which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat which habitually cries or howls is
               being kept by any person in the city, the police department or the ACO shall notify
               the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint has been received and that the person
               should take whatever steps necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.

               (b)

               If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a dog or cat as set forth
               in subsection (a) is ineffective, then a complaint of at least two citizens not from
               the same family or structure may be presented to the police department or the ACO,
               alleging that a dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or a cat which habitually
               cries or howls is being kept by any person within the city. The ACO or the police
               department shall inform the owner of such dog or cat that said complaint has been
               received and may cite the owner of the dog or cat for the violation alleged in said
               complaint.

               (Ord. No. 2013-036, § 2, 8-19-2013)"
Sec. 6-94.,Potbellied pigs; requirements.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or raise more than two adult potbellied
               pigs in any one dwelling unit within the city.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a potbellied pig outdoors other than at
               those times necessary for the elimination of waste materials or exercise. Potbellied
               pigs are subject to all applicable sections of this chapter including the requirements
               of this chapter which prohibit animals at large.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-029, § 3, 10-17-2016
                  
               )"
Secs. 6-95—6-112.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,ANIMAL PROTECTION,NULL
Sec. 6-113.,Animals in motor vehicles.,"No person shall leave any animal in any standing or parked vehicle in such a way to
               endanger the animal's health, safety, or welfare. An animal control officer or police
               officer is authorized to use reasonable force to remove the animal from the vehicle
               whenever it appears that the animal's health, safety, or welfare is or will be endangered
               if the owner of the vehicle cannot be located after reasonable attempts. The animal
               shall be taken to the shelter or to a veterinarian, if the animal is in distress.
               A written notice bearing the name of the officer removing the animal, a telephone
               number where he can be contacted, and the location where the animal may be claimed
               by the owner shall be attached to the vehicle. Any person violating this section shall
               bear the full cost and expense incurred by the city in the care, medical treatment,
               impoundment cost, and disposal of said animal, including the removal from a vehicle.

               (Code 2008, § 90.60)"
Sec. 6-115.,Tethered animals.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for an owner of an animal, or a person who has custody or control
               of an animal, to leave an animal outside by use of a restraint that unreasonably limits
               the animal's movement. In this section, a restraint unreasonably limits an animal's
               movement if the restraint:

               (1)

               Is not attached to a properly fitting collar;

               (2)

               Uses a collar that is pinch-type, prong-type, or choke-type;

               (3)

               Is not attached to a trolley or cable run system with swivels at each end that allows
               motion without entanglement;

               (4)

               Uses a chain, rope, leash cable, tether or other device directly around an animal's
               neck;

               (5)

               Uses a chain, rope, leash cable, tether or other device that weighs more than one
               eighth of the animal's body weight;

               (6)

               Uses a chain, rope, leash cable, tether or other device that is a length shorter than
               the greater of:

               a.

               Five times the length of the dog, as measured from the tip of the dog's nose to the
               base of the dog's tail; or

               b.

               Ten feet;

               (7)

               Allows the animal to advance beyond the owner's premises;

               (8)

               Creates a potentially dangerous situation for a person or another animal;

               (9)

               Confines the animal to an area where the animal is subject to harassment, stings,
               or bites from outdoor insects or attacks by other animals;

               (10)

               Confines the animal to an area where the animal does not have access to water, food,
               shelter from the elements; or

               (11)

               Causes injury to the animal.

               (b)

               Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section it shall be unlawful to leave an animal
               outside and unattended by use of a chain or tether:

               (1)

               Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;

               (2)

               Within 500 feet of the premises of a school;

               (3)

               In the case of extreme weather conditions in which:

               a.

               The actual temperature or wind chill temperature is below 32 degrees Fahrenheit;

               b.

               A heat advisory has been issued by state or local authorities; or

               c.

               A hurricane, tropical storm or tornado warning has been issued for the area by the
               National Weather Service.

               (Code 2008, § 90.62; Ord. No. 2010-004, § 1, 3-15-2010)"
Sec. 6-116.,Molesting animals.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner tease, annoy, disturb, molest,
               or irritate an animal that is confined to the owner's premises.

               (Code 2008, § 90.63)"
Sec. 6-117.,"Pens and enclosures, sanitary requirements.","The owner of any animal shall maintain and keep all pens, coops, kennels, fenced areas,
               and enclosures of any kind in a sanitary condition. This shall include the following:

                  (1)

                  All animal wastes shall be disposed of promptly and all pens and enclosures shall
                  be cleaned as needed to prevent odors, and not draw insects or other vermin or create
                  a nuisance.

                  (2)

                  The premises upon which animals are kept shall be clean and free from noxious and
                  unpleasant odors.

               (Code 2008, § 90.64)"
Sec. 6-118.,Negligent care.,"(a)

               It is unlawful for any person to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide any animal in
               his custody or charge, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shade, shelter,
               or veterinary care as may be necessary for diseased or injured animals. Any animal
               habitually kept outside shall be provided with a structurally sound, moisture-proof,
               and windproof shelter large enough to accommodate the animal and to which the animal
               may seek refuge from moisture and wind.

               (b)

               A notice of violation requiring that the condition be corrected within a specified
               time period shall be issued to a person before any notice to appear at the municipal
               court may be issued or before a complaint may be filed with the municipal court. Any
               person issued a notice of violation may appeal that notice to the municipal court
               as provided in section 6-25.

               (Code 2008, § 90.65)"
Sec. 6-119.,Inhumane treatment.,"(a)

               Cruelty to animals. It is prohibited and it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
               commit or cause to be committed any act of cruelty, harassment, or torture of any
               animal or cause such animal to be mutilated or inhumanely killed. Ownership, or the
               commission of such acts of cruelty on private property, shall not be a justifiable
               defense for violation of this section. It shall be unlawful for any person to unreasonably
               withhold food, water or shelter from any animal such that the animal's health is endangered
               or is caused to unduly suffer.

               (b)

               Poisoning. It is prohibited and it shall be unlawful for any person to poison any domestic animal
               or to distribute poison or toxicant on public or private property in any manner whatsoever
               with the intent of poisoning any domestic animal.

               (c)

               Abandoning animals, alive or dead. It is prohibited and shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally release, abandon
               or discard a dog, cat or any other animal in their custody, alive or dead, in the
               city limits.

               (Code 2008, § 90.66; Ord. No. 2001-047, 11-24-2001)"
Secs. 6-120—6-136.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 6-137.,Determination that an animal is dangerous.,"(a)

               If a person reports an incident described by the definition of dangerous animal as
               contained in section 6-1, the animal control officer may investigate the incident. If, after receiving the
               sworn statements of any witnesses, the animal control officer determines the animal
               is a dangerous animal, it shall notify the owner of that fact.

               (b)

               An owner, not later than the 15th day after the date the owner is notified that a
               animal owned by the owner is a dangerous animal, may appeal the determination of the
               animal control officer to the municipal court whereupon a hearing will be held pursuant
               to section 6-139.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-138.,Reporting of incident.,"(a)

               A person may report an incident described by the definition of dangerous animal as
               contained in section 6-1 to the municipal court. The owner of the animal shall deliver the animal to the animal
               control officer not later than the fifth day after the date on which the owner receives
               notice that the report has been filed. The animal control officer may provide for
               the impoundment of the animal in secure and humane conditions until the court orders
               the disposition of the animal.

               (b)

               If the owner fails to deliver the animal as required by this section, the animal control
               officer may report this failure to the municipal court whereupon the judge may issue
               a warrant authorizing seizure of the animal if the animal complained of meets the
               definition of dangerous animal as contained in section 6-1. The animal control officer shall seize the animal and shall provide for the impoundment
               of the animal in secure and humane conditions until the court orders the disposition
               of the animal. The owner shall pay any cost incurred in seizing the animal.

               (c)

               The judge shall determine, after notice and hearing as provided in section 6-139, whether the animal is a dangerous animal.

               (d)

               The judge, after determining that the animal is a dangerous animal, may order the
               animal control officer to continue to impound the dangerous animal in secure and humane
               conditions until the court orders disposition of the animal and the animal is returned
               to the owner, ordered removed from the city, or destroyed.

               (e)

               The owner shall pay any cost or fee associated with the continued impoundment under
               subsection 6-138(d).

               (f)

               The city, by the adoption of this section, hereby elects to be governed by V.T.C.A.,
               Health and Safety Code § 822.0422.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-139.,Hearing.,"(a)

               The court shall set a time for a hearing to determine whether the animal is a dangerous
               animal or whether the owner of the animal has complied with section 6-140 or an order issued pursuant to section 6-140. The hearing must be held not later than the tenth day after the date on which the
               animal is seized or delivered.

               (b)

               The court shall give written notice of the time and place of the hearing to:

               (1)

               The owner of the animal or the person from whom the animal was seized; and

               (2)

               The person who made the report.

               (c)

               Any interested party, including the city attorney, may present evidence at the hearing.

               (d)

               The owner of an animal or the person making the report may appeal the decision of
               the municipal court in the manner provided for the appeal of cases from the municipal
               court.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-140.,Requirements for owner of dangerous animal.,"(a)

               Unless an appeal is pending pursuant to section 6-137(2); not later than the 30th day after a person learns that the person is the owner
               of a dangerous animal, the person shall:

               (1)

               Register the dangerous animal with the city animal control department;

               (2)

               Restrain the dangerous animal at all times on a leash, harness, or other restraining
               device, and with a muzzle in the immediate control of a person or in a secure enclosure,
               as defined by V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 822.041;

               (3)

               Obtain liability insurance coverage or show financial responsibility in an amount
               of at least $100,000.00 to cover damages resulting from an attack by the dangerous
               animal causing bodily injury to a person and provide proof of the required liability
               insurance coverage or financial responsibility to the animal control officer for the
               area in which the animal is kept; and

               (4)

               Comply with all applicable city or state regulations, requirements, or restrictions
               on dangerous animals.

               (b)

               In addition to or in lieu of the requirements of subsection (a), unless an appeal
               is pending, the court or the animal control officer may order that the owner comply
               with certain remedial requirements listed in section 6-28.

               (c)

               The owner of a dangerous animal who does not comply with subsection (a) or any order
               issued pursuant to subsection (b) shall deliver the animal to the animal control officer
               not later than the 30th day after the owner learns that the animal is a dangerous
               animal.

               (d)

               If the judge finds, after notice and hearing as provided by section 6-139, that the owner of a dangerous animal has failed to comply with subsection (a), (b)
               or (c), the judge shall order the animal control officer to seize the animal and shall
               issue a warrant authorizing the seizure. The animal control officer shall seize the
               animal and shall provide for the impoundment of the animal in secure and humane conditions.

               (e)

               The owner shall pay any cost or fee assessed by the city related to the seizure, acceptance,
               impoundment, or destruction of the dangerous animal.

               (f)

               The court shall order the animal to be humanely destroyed if the owner has not complied
               with subsection (a) or an order issued by the court pursuant to subsection (b) before
               the 11th day after the date on which the animal is seized or delivered to the animal
               control officer. The court may order the animal control officer to return the animal
               to the owner if the owner complies with subsection (a) or an order issued by the court
               pursuant to subsection (b) before the 11th day after the date on which the animal
               is seized or delivered to the authority.

               (g)

               The court may order the humane destruction of an animal if the owner of the animal
               has not been located before the 15th day after the seizure and impoundment of the
               animal.

               (h)

               For purposes of this subsection, a person learns that the person is the owner of a
               dangerous animal when:

               (1)

               The owner knows of an attack described by the definition of dangerous animal as contained
               in this chapter;

               (2)

               The owner received notice that a justice court, county court, or municipal court has
               found that the animal is a dangerous animal; or

               (3)

               The owner is informed by the animal control officer that the animal is a dangerous
               animal under section 6-137.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-141.,Registration.,"(a)

               The animal control officer shall annually register a dangerous animal if the owner:

               (1)

               Presents proof of:

               a.

               Liability insurance or financial responsibility, as required by section 6-140(a)(3);

               b.

               Current rabies vaccination of the dangerous animal; and

               c.

               The secure enclosure in which the dangerous animal will be kept; and

               (2)

               Payment of an annual registration fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (b)

               The animal control officer shall provide to the owner registering a dangerous animal
               a registration tag. The owner must place the tag on the animal's collar.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-142.,Reporting events to the animal control officer.,"(a)

               The owner of an animal declared dangerous under the provisions of this chapter shall
               report any of the following events within 14 days to the animal control officer:

               (1)

               Permanent removal of the animal from the city;

               (2)

               Death of the animal;

               (3)

               The birth of any offspring, including the number, markings, color, and sex;

               (4)

               The new address where the animal is located if the animal is to be kept at a new address
               within the city limits; and

               (5)

               Transfer of ownership, including the name and address of the new owner and the location
               where the animal is to be kept.

               (b)

               The owner of an animal declared dangerous under the provisions of this chapter shall
               report within 24 hours to the animal control officer the escape of the animal. The
               owner of an animal declared dangerous shall report to the animal control officer within
               24 hours any instance in which said animal attacks or bites a person or other animal.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-143.,Attack by dangerous animal.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous animal and the
               animal makes an unprovoked attack on another person outside the animal's enclosure
               and causes bodily injury to the other person.

               (b)

               An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.

               (c)

               If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section, the court may order
               the dangerous animal destroyed by a person listed in V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code
               § 822.004.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-144.,Violations.,"(a)

               A person who owns or keeps custody or control of a dangerous animal commits an offense
               if the person fails to comply with section 6-140, an order issued pursuant to section 6-140 or section 6-141(a).

               (b)

               An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-145.,Defenses.,"(a)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under section 6-143 or section 6-144 that the person is a veterinarian, a peace officer, a person employed by a recognized
               animal shelter, or a person employed by the state or a political subdivision of the
               state to deal with stray animals and has temporary ownership, custody, or control
               of the animal in connection with that position.

               (b)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under section 6-143 or section 6-144 that the person is an employee of the institutional division of the state department
               of criminal justice or a law enforcement agency and trains or uses animals for law
               enforcement or corrections purposes.

               (c)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under section 6-143 or section 6-144 that the person is an animal trainer or an employee of a guard animal company under
               V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1702.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 6-146.,Authority of animal control officer.,"(a)

               In addition to any other authority conferred by this Code or state law, an animal
               control officer or a peace officer shall have the authority to immediately seize and
               impound any animal that bites a person.

               (b)

               If impoundment cannot be done safely, nothing in this chapter shall impair, restrict
               or remove the authority of an animal control officer or a peace officer to destroy
               an animal who is determined to be an immediate danger to a person.

               (Ord. No. 2012-030, § 3 , 9-17-2012)"
Secs. 6-147—6-165.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VII.,IMPOUNDMENT AND RELEASE,NULL
Sec. 6-167.,Tampering with shelter or impoundment vehicle.,"It shall be unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to break into, open,
               pull down the enclosure of, or make any opening into the shelter or any enclosure
               belonging to or used by the city to impound or keep animals, livestock, fowl, or wildlife.
               It shall also be unlawful for any person to turn out or release, or cause to be turned
               out or released, or aid or abet the turning out from or release of, any animal from
               the shelter, from an impoundment vehicle, or from any enclosure used by the city for
               the impoundment of animals.

               (Code 2008, § 90.81)"
Sec. 6-168.,Redemption of impounded animal.,"(a)

               Prior to any sale, the owner of any animal impounded may redeem the same by paying
               the fee as provided in section 6-171 in addition to any fines.

               (b)

               After sale, any animal may be redeemed by paying to the purchaser double the amount
               bid by him for such animal, and his reasonable expenses for keeping the same, provided
               that the owner so redeems the animal within 30 days after the date of sale. If not
               redeemed, the animal shall become the absolute property of the purchaser.

               (Code 2008, § 90.82)"
Sec. 6-169.,Disposition of dogs and cats.,"(a)

               If not redeemed within 96 hours of its capture and impoundment, any impounded dog
               or cat may be destroyed in a humane manner or given up for adoption to any person
               willing to pay the cost of necessary vaccinations and such other reasonable charges
               as may be imposed.

               (b)

               Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, any impounded feral cat may be immediately
               destroyed in a humane manner. For the purposes of this section, a feral cat is the
               wild offspring of domestic cats.

               (Code 2008, § 90.83; Ord. No. 2003-029, 8-18-2003)"
Sec. 6-170.,Disposition of other animals.,"(a)

               Any impounded livestock or other animals, other than a dog or cat, which is not redeemed
               within five days of capture and impoundment may be sold to the highest bidder at an
               auction conducted at such time and place as set forth in this chapter.

               (b)

               If an animal cannot be sold at a public auction as prescribed herein, the city or
               its agent may either give the animal to some person capable of humanely caring for
               it or humanely euthanize the animal.

               (Code 2008, § 90.84)"
Sec. 6-171.,Fees.,"(a)

               To redeem an impounded animal, the owner must pay the fees as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (b)

               In addition to the redemption fees referenced in subsection (a) of this section, the
               owner of an animal shall pay the ACO the fees for services rendered on behalf of that
               owner's animal, as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of
               the city council from time to time.

               (c)

               The ACO shall charge fees for adoption of an animal as currently established or as
               hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time; provided, however,
               such fees shall be waived on dogs released pursuant to a contract entered into as
               authorized by section 6-173.

               (Code 2008, § 90.85; Ord. No. 98-009, 2-23-1998)"
Sec. 6-172.,Destruction of certain animals.,"Any animal impounded or found at large within the city may be destroyed by animal
               control officers upon determination that such animal has been injured or is sick and
               in such a state that its recovery is seriously in doubt or that such animal is sick
               and endangers the health of other animals or persons.

               (Code 2008, § 90.86)"
Sec. 6-173.,Adoptions.,"(a)

               An individual may adopt a dog or cat from the animal shelter under the following conditions:

               (1)

               The animal has been classified as adoptable by the animal control officer;

               (2)

               The prospective adopter has proper facilities to care for the animal;

               (3)

               The prospective adopter obtains the necessary vaccinations for the animal;

               (4)

               The prospective adopter pays the applicable fee as currently established or as hereafter
               adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time; and

               (5)

               The prospective adopter agrees to have the animal neutered if a male, or spayed if
               a female, within 30 days after adoption, or else the animal control officer shall
               have the right of immediate return of the animal to the animal shelter, provided,
               that the officer shall allow additional time in the case of dogs or cats less than
               six months of age.

               (b)

               The animal control officer may refuse to allow a person to adopt a cat or dog if the
               officer believes that:

               (1)

               The person adopting would not have proper facilities to contain or care for the animal
               as required by this Code;

               (2)

               The person adopting wants the dog or cat for the purpose of resale, or for purposes
               of other than pet ownership; or

               (3)

               The cat or dog to be adopted would pose a hazard to humans or other animals.

               (Code 2008, § 90.87; Ord. No. 2001-047, 11-24-2001)"
ARTICLE VIII.,REGISTRATION,NULL
Sec. 6-200.,Pet registration.,"(a)

               Every owner of a cat, dog or ferret, which is four months of age and is kept in the
               city, shall register the animal with the city every two years.

               (b)

               In order to register a cat, dog or ferret, the owner, or his designee, shall:

               (1)

               Provide a current rabies vaccination certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian
               that contains identifying information regarding the animal including, but not limited
               to, breed, sex, and sterilization information;

               (2)

               Present a valid picture identification card issued to him or her by a state; and

               (3)

               Pay a registration fee as established by the city council and maintained on file in
               the office of the city secretary.

               (c)

               Upon registration, the city shall execute and furnish to the owner of the cat, dog,
               or ferret as evidence thereof, a certificate of registration and a tag that contains
               a serial number to correspond with the registration certificate number. The owner
               shall place the registration tag on the animal's collar or harness while the animal
               is outside the owner's residence. If the tag is lost or destroyed, the owner shall
               obtain a duplicate upon payment of a fee established by the city council and on file
               in the office of the city secretary. The city shall retain a paper or digital copy
               of the registration certificate and registration application, including the required
               rabies vaccination information securely with the city secretary's office. The city
               secretary shall maintain the confidentiality of these rabies vaccination certificates
               and any record compiled with the same information in compliance with the V.T.C.A.,
               Health and Safety Code § 826.0211 and the Texas Public Information Act, V.T.C.A.,
               Government Code ch. 552, and other applicable law.

               (d)

               It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly possess a dog, cat or ferret that has
               not been registered as prescribed by this section.

               (e)

               It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly use a certificate of registration or
               tag of any dog, cat or ferret other than the one for which it was issued.

               (f)

               It shall be unlawful for a person to alter or obliterate any information contained
               in a certificate of registration or on a registration tag.

               (g)

               It shall be unlawful for a person who owns or harbors a dog, cat or ferret to fail
               or refuse to present proof to an animal control officer, police officer, or city code
               officer, upon request, that such animal is currently registered as required by this
               section.

               (h)

               The city shall waive the prescribed registration fees for owners under the following
               conditions:

               (1)

               The registration of an animal trained to assist the hearing impaired, visually impaired,
               or physically impaired;

               (2)

               The registration of a dog employed as a police canine by a law enforcement agency;

               (3)

               The registration of a spayed or neutered animal by a resident 65 years of age or older;
               or

               (4)

               The registration of a spayed or neutered animal which has had a microchip implanted.

               The eligibility for a waiver of the registration fee does not relieve the owner of
               his or her responsibility to register a dog, cat or ferret as prescribed by this section.

               (i)

               For purposes of this section, ""temporarily"" means a period of time not to exceed 30
               days. This section does not apply to:

               (1)

               Non-residents of the city who stay within the city limits temporarily; or

               (2)

               Residents who may harbor an animal temporarily.

               The city may provide citizens registration options through outside vendors, including
               online pet registration services. There may be additional fees beyond those prescribed
               in this section to access said services and are the responsibility of the user. The
               city may also provide incentives for utilizing these services that may alter the time
               periods, fees, etc., as prescribed by this section.

               (j)

               Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be deemed to be
               guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in amount not in
               excess of $200.00. Each violation of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense
               and each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Nothing
               herein shall prevent the enforcement of this chapter by another means authorized by
               law, and this chapter may be enforced by any or all means, and the choice of one remedy
               is not to the exclusion of any other remedy.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-025, § 1, 12-21-2015
                  
               )"
Chapter 8,BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Enforcement of municipal ordinances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 54 et seq.;
               regulation of land use, structures, businesses and related activities, V.T.C.A., Local
               Government Code ch. 211 et seq.; municipal regulation of housing and other structures,
               V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 214; nuisances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code
               § 217.002."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 8-1.,Permit expiration.,"Except for specific use permits, permits issued by the city that do not have an expiration
               period or other time limitation shall expire one year after issuance. Notwithstanding
               the foregoing, however, a building permit may be extended once, for an additional
               90-day period, by providing written notice thereof to the building official of the
               city prior to the expiration of the building permit. No additional extensions are
               permitted.

               (Code 2008, § 150.90; Ord. No. 2000-047, 9-11-2000; Ord. No. 2008-09, § 1, 3-17-2008)"
Secs. 8-2—8-20.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,TECHNICAL CODES,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 8-21.,Additional local amendments contemplated.,"The city may from time to time determine that additional local modifications to the
               codes adopted herein are necessary and appropriate to meet the unique building needs
               of the city. To effectuate modifications, the city council may enact individual ordinances
               amending the ordinance from which this article is derived and fully setting forth
               the change to be made in the specific code. Such subsequent amendments shall be consolidated
               as an exhibit to the ordinance from which this article is derived, and shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary.

               (Ord. No. 2009-016, § 14, 6-15-2009)"
Sec. 8-22.,Permits and fees.,"The codes adopted herein provide for the issuance of certain permits and the collection
               of fees therefor. The fees shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (Ord. No. 2009-016, § 15, 6-15-2009)"
Secs. 8-23—8-47.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,BUILDING CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               International Building Code as the commercial building code in the state, V.T.C.A.,
               Local Government Code § 214.216."
Sec. 8-48.,International Building Code adopted.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Building Code is hereby adopted as the official
               building code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied
               into this division in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not
               be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public
               inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (Code 2008, § 150.01; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 1, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 1, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-49.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Building Code, as adopted herein, is hereby
               amended by adoption of those amendments shown on exhibit A on file in the office of
               the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.02; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2006-023, 5-15-2006;
               Ord. No. 2009-016, § 2, 6-15-2009; Ord. No. 2013-027, § 1, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 9-82.,Application for permit and fees.,"(a)

               Any person desiring to operate a food establishment must make a written application
               for a permit on forms provided by the regulatory authority. The application must contain
               the name and address of each applicant, the location and type of the proposed food
               establishment and the applicable fee. An incomplete application will not be accepted.
               Failure to provide all required information, or falsifying information required may
               result in denial or revocation of the permit. Renewals of permits are required on
               an annual basis and the same information is required for a renewal permit as for an
               initial permit.

               (b)

               Prior to the approval of an initial permit or the renewal of an existing permit, the
               regulatory authority shall inspect the proposed food establishment to determine compliance
               with state laws and rules. A food establishment that does not comply with state laws
               and rules will be denied a permit or the renewal of a permit.

               (c)

               Fees for permits issued under this article shall be issued by the regulatory authority.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 8-50.,Moving of buildings constructed off site.,"(a)

               No person shall move a building constructed off site, including, but not limited to,
               houses and storage buildings, into the city, out of the city or through the city,
               without first obtaining a moving permit from the city, except that no moving permit
               shall be required if the path of the movement is confined to state highways, the movement
               of the building has been permitted through the Texas Highway Department and the building
               will not be located within the city limits. In addition, no moving permit shall be
               required if the building does not exceed ten feet in width, 45 feet in length and
               13 feet six inches in height when loaded on a transporting vehicle.

               (b)

               A person who is required to obtain a moving permit under this section must file with
               the city a completed application for a moving permit on the application form issued
               by the city which shall set forth the dimensions of the building when loaded on a
               transporting vehicle, and, if the building is to be located on a lot within the city
               limits, shall include a site plan depicting the building's location on the lot with
               the street, rear and side yard setbacks identified thereon. No moving permit shall
               be issued unless the site plan affirmatively shows that the lot is platted and all
               applicable setback requirements have been met.

               (c)

               No building located in the city pursuant to a building permit issued under this section
               shall be occupied unless the building meets all applicable code requirements of the
               city and unless the building been inspected by the city for compliance therewith.

               (d)

               A moving permit issued under this section shall be required in addition to permits
               for building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical and any other permits that may apply.

               (Code 2008, § 150.03; Ord. No. 2000-013, 3-13-2000; Ord. No. 2011-037, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Secs. 8-51—8-73.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,RESIDENTIAL CODE,NULL
Sec. 8-74.,International Residential Code adopted.,"The 2013 Edition of the International Residential Code is hereby adopted as the official
               residential construction code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference
               as though copied into this division in its entirety. The material contained in such
               code shall not be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but
               shall be maintained as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will
               be available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (Code 2008, § 150.110; Ord. No. 2007-017, 5-21-2007; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 3, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 2, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-75.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2013 Edition of the International Residential Code, as adopted herein is hereby
               amended by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit B on file in the office
               of the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.110; Ord. No. 2007-017, 5-21-2007; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 4, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 2, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-76.,Resolution of conflicts between building code and residential code.,"To the extent of any conflict between the International Building Code as applied to
               residential property and the International Residential Code, the International Residential
               Code shall control.

               (Code 2008, § 150.111; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005)"
Secs. 8-77—8-95.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,MECHANICAL CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Requirements and standards for industrialized housing and buildings, V.T.C.A., Occupations
               Code § 1202.151 et seq.; Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Contractor License Law,
               V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1302."
Sec. 8-96.,International Mechanical Code adopted.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Mechanical Code is hereby adopted as the official
               mechanical code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied
               into this division in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not
               be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public
               inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (Code 2008, § 150.10; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 5, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 3, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-97.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Mechanical Code, as adopted herein is hereby
               amended by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit C on file in the office
               of the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.10; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 6, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 3, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-98.,Registration of mechanical contractors.,"Except for work by a person who owns and resides in the residence for which a permit
               is sought, no mechanical work shall be performed in the city except by a person currently
               registered with the city or his employees. Registration shall only be available to
               an air conditioner and refrigeration contractor licensed by the state under the air
               conditioner and refrigeration contractors license law, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code
               ch. 1302. Such registration shall be valid for one year from the date of registration.
               The fees for registration shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time."
Secs. 8-99—8-122.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 5.,PLUMBING CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Plumbing and sewers, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 214.011 et seq.; Plumbing License
               Law, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1301."
Sec. 8-123.,International Plumbing Code adopted.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Plumbing Code is hereby adopted as the official
               plumbing code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied
               into this division in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not
               be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public
               inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (Code 2008, § 150.20; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 7, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 4, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-124.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Plumbing Code, as adopted herein is hereby amended
               by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit D on file in the office of
               the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.20; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 8, 6-15-2009;
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 4, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 14-80.,Duty to keep property free of litter.,"It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of property within the city to place,
               deposit, throw, or permit litter to accumulate on any lot or premises located in the
               city, unless the same has been deposited in an authorized receptacle for collection.

               (Code 2008, § 95.14)"
Sec. 8-125.,Registration of plumbers.,"Except for work by a person who owns and resides in the residence for which a permit
               is sought, no plumbing work shall be performed in the city except by a person currently
               registered with the city or his employees. Registration shall only be available to
               a master plumber licensed by the state under the plumbing license law, V.T.C.A., Occupations
               Code ch. 1301. Such registration shall be valid for one year from the date of registration.
               Registration shall be available upon furnishing of a copy of the applicant's state
               license and proof of registrant's liability insurance to the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.22; Ord. No. 2002-011, 11-26-2001)"
Secs. 8-126—8-148.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 6.,ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2013-027, § 5, adopted June 17, 2013, repealed div. 6, §§ 8-149—8-153, in
               its entirety and enacted a new div. 6, §§ 8-149, 8-150 as set out herein. Former div.
               6, pertained to similar subject matter and was derived from Code 2008, § 150.100;
               Ord. No. 2006-010, adopted November 21, 2005; Ord. No. 2009-016, §§ 9, 10, adopted
               June 15, 2009; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 10, adopted June 15, 2009; Ord. No. 2011-016,
               §§ 1—4, 6, adopted June 20, 2011."
Sec. 8-149.,Adoption of the 2012 International Energy Conservation Code.,"The 2012 edition of the International Energy Conservation Code is hereby adopted as
               the official energy conservation code of the city and is fully incorporated by reference
               as though copied into this article in its entirety. The material contained in such
               code shall not be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but
               shall be maintained as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will
               be available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (Ord. No. 2013-027, § 5, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-150.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Energy Conservation Code, as adopted herein
               is hereby amended by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit E on file
               in the office of the city secretary.

               (Ord. No. 2013-027, § 5, 6-17-2013)"
Secs. 8-151—8-168.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 7.,ELECTRICAL CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               National Electrical Code as municipal electrical construction code, V.T.C.A., Local
               Government Code § 214.214; Texas Electrical Safety and Licensing Act, V.T.C.A., Occupations
               Code ch. 1305."
Sec. 8-169.,National Electrical Code adopted.,"The 2011 National Electrical Code is hereby adopted as the official electrical code
               of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied into this division
               in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not be included in the
               formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained as a public record
               in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public inspection and
               copying during regular business hours.

               (Code 2008, § 150.30; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2013-027, § 6, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-170.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2011 Edition of the National Electrical Code, as adopted herein is hereby amended
               by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit F on file in the office of
               the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 150.30; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005; Ord. No. 2013-027, § 6, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-171.,Electrical permits; fees.,"(a)

               Building permits are required for new buildings, additions and for remodeling before
               electrical permits are issued. As a condition of each such permit, electrical contractors
               shall make application with the city listing the type of occupancy, the type of work,
               and tendering to the city the fees currently established or as hereafter adopted by
               resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (b)

               Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this section has been commenced
               without first obtaining a permit, the fee shall be doubled.

               (Code 2008, § 150.31; Ord. No. 2002-006, 10-22-2001;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-016, § 1, 7-21-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 8-182.,Expiration.,"Every specific permit issued by the electrical inspector under the provisions of the
               electrical code, as amended, shall expire by limitation and become null and void if
               the work authorized by such permit has not been started within six months from the
               date of the permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned
               at any time for a period of six months after the work is started. Before the work
               can be started again, a new permit shall be obtained.

               (Code 2008, § 150.47)"
Sec. 8-172.,Inspections.,"(a)

               Upon the completion of any electrical installation for which a permit has been obtained
               under this article, it shall be the duty of the person making the installation to
               notify the city's electrical inspector, who shall inspect the installation within
               48 hours, exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, of the time such notice is
               given. When any electrical equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent placement
               of parts of the building, the person installing the equipment shall notify the electrical
               inspector and such equipment shall not be concealed until it has been inspected, approved,
               or authorized by the electrical inspector. On large installations where the concealment
               of equipment proceeds continuously, the person installing the electrical equipment
               shall give the electrical inspector due notice, and inspections shall be made periodically
               during the progress of work. The city's electrical inspector shall have the authority
               to require building contractors to open works that in any manner conceal electrical
               wiring that has been closed without his knowledge or permission, and in no case shall
               the inspector issue clearance until satisfied that the work is in accordance with
               the provisions of this chapter. The inspector shall also have the right to refuse
               to issue a clearance on any wiring that is concealed in such a manner that it cannot
               be fully determined that it has been done in accordance with this chapter.

               (b)

               If, upon inspection under this section, the installation is not found to be fully
               in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the electrical inspector shall
               immediately notify the person making the installation of the existing defects.

               (c)

               When the electrical inspector finds the installation to be in conformity with the
               provisions of the electrical code, as amended, he shall issue to the person making
               the installation a certificate of approval, authorizing use of the installation in
               connection with electrical supply. If a temporary installation approval is requested,
               such certificate shall expire at a time to be stated therein and shall be revocable
               for cause by the electrical inspector. Permission may be given authorizing the connection
               and use of some specified portions of an uncompleted installation. Such permission
               shall be revocable at the discretion of the electrical inspector.

               (d)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to make connection to a supply of electricity
               or to supply electricity to any electrical equipment for which a permit is required
               by this chapter, or which has been disconnected by order of the electrical inspector,
               until a certificate of approval has been issued by the electrical inspector authorizing
               the connection and use of such equipment, except that the electrical inspector may
               authorize a temporary connection.

               (Code 2008, § 150.32)"
Sec. 8-173.,Registration of electricians; exceptions.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person who is not registered as a licensed electrician
               in accordance with state regulations to engage in the business of electrical construction,
               or in the business of any of the classifications prescribed in this chapter, or to
               make any repairs, alterations, additions, or changes to any existing system of electrical
               conductors, wiring, apparatus, or equipment within the city, except as otherwise provided
               in this section.

               (b)

               Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit any bona fide homeowner from personally
               installing electrical conductors or equipment within his own home, provided that the
               owner shall file with the electrical inspector as to his ability to install electrical
               wiring, apply for and secure a permit, pay required fees, do work in accordance with
               the electrical code, as amended, apply for an inspection and receive a certificate
               of approval. Personal installation by an owner under this subsection shall be by himself,
               for himself, on his own homestead premises, and without compensation, and no person
               shall be employed to assist him in any way on such work.

               (c)

               The following classes of work may be carried out by persons who are not registered
               electricians:

               (1)

               The replacement of lamps and fuses and the connection of portable devices to suitable
               receptacles which have been permanently installed;

               (2)

               The installation, alteration, or repairing of any wiring, devices, or equipment for
               the operation of signal or the transmission of intelligence where such wiring, devices,
               appliances, or equipment are operated at a voltage not exceeding 30 volts, between
               conductors, and do not include generating or transforming equipment;

               (3)

               The installation, alteration, or repair of electric wiring, devices, appliances, and
               equipment installed by or for an electrical public service corporation operating under
               a franchise from the city when for the use of such corporation in the generation,
               transmission, distribution, or metering of the electrical energy or for the use of
               such a corporation in the operation of street railways, signals or the transmission
               of intelligence;

               (4)

               Any work involved in the manufacture or test of electrical materials, devices, appliances,
               or apparatus, but not including any installation wiring other than that required for
               testing purposes, if such equipment as completed is approved by the electrical inspector
               before it is installed or used within the city;

               (5)

               Any work involved in any factory in the manufacture, fabrication, or testing of products,
               equipment, or devices wherein electrical wiring, apparatus, devices, or equipment
               is installed, fabricated, manufactured, incorporated, or otherwise attached.

               (d)

               Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit any person from using his regular
               electrical maintenance employees for installing, repairing, altering, or maintaining
               electrical conductors or equipment within or on the premises occupied by such person,
               provided such installation, repair, alteration, and/or maintenance is completed in
               accordance with the provisions of the electrical code, as amended. Immediately upon
               the completion of any such repairs, maintenance or installation of electrical work
               referred to in this section, the person shall call for an immediate inspection of
               such work by the electrical inspector. Should any hazardous condition be found, it
               shall be corrected within a reasonable period of time. For the purpose of determining
               a hazardous condition, the electrical code shall be used as the criteria. Any electrical
               work which upon completion will be concealed shall receive a rough-in inspection prior
               to concealment.

               (Code 2008, § 150.33;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-016, §§ 2, 3, 7-21-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 8-174.,Fees for registration.,"The fees for registration of licensed electricians shall be as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time. The annual
               fee shall be paid before the issuance of a certificate of registration. No certificate
               shall authorize the holder thereof to enter into a contract for or do any installation,
               maintenance or repair of any electrical work, unless such person has paid his annual
               registration fee as required by this section.

               (Code 2008, § 150.35; Ord. No. 2000-047, 9-11-2000;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-016, § 4, 7-21-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 8-175.,"Transfer, alteration, etc.","It shall be unlawful for any person to lend, rent or transfer his certificate of registration
               or any rights therein contained to any other person, and for any person to make use
               of any such rights which are not actually his own. It shall be unlawful for any person
               other than the electrical inspector to alter or amend in any manner any such certificate
               of registration.

               (Code 2008, § 150.37)"
Sec. 8-176.,Displaying or carrying.,"Every holder of a certificate as an electrical contractor shall display his certificate
               in a conspicuous place in his principal place of business. Every holder of a registered
               master or journeyman electrician's certificate shall carry his registration certificate
               on his person at all times while doing electrical work and shall produce and exhibit
               it when requested by an inspector or officer of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 150.38)"
Sec. 8-177.,Expiration and renewal.,"Every certificate of registration shall expire one year following the issuance date
               and shall be renewed by the electrical inspector upon application and upon the payment
               to the city of the required fee.

               (Code 2008, § 150.39; Ord. No. 2000-047, 9-11-2000)"
Sec. 8-178.,False representation.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself as a registered electrician
               of any class set out in this chapter or to use the words ""electrical contractor,""
               ""master electrician,"" ""electrician,"" or words of similar import or meaning on signs,
               cards, stationery or by any other manner whatsoever, unless such person is properly
               registered as provided in this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 150.42)"
Sec. 8-179.,Work permits required; exceptions.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to install or cause to be installed any electrical
               conductors or equipment within or on any building, structure or premises, publicly
               or privately owned, or to make or cause to be made any alteration in or addition to
               any existing electrical conductors or equipment without securing a permit therefor
               from the electrical inspector, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

               (b)

               No permit will be required, however, to execute any of the following classes of electrical
               work:

               (1)

               The replacement of lamps, fuses or the connection of portable electrical equipment
               to suitable permanently installed receptacles;

               (2)

               Any work involved in the manufacture, fabricating, repair or testing of electrical
               equipment, products, apparatus or devices manufactured, produced or used in any factory
               or manufacturing facility.

               (c)

               A permit shall be secured for all electric signs manufactured by registered electrical
               sign contractors which are not approved by the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., and
               are to be sold, erected or installed in the city.

               (d)

               A permit shall be secured for all electrical changes, installations and revisions
               that are done in electrical elevators. No permit shall be required when electrical
               conductors or equipment are being maintained by repairs or replacement.

               (Code 2008, § 150.44)"
Sec. 8-180.,Application.,"Application for a permit, describing the work to be done, shall be made to the electrical
               inspector by the person installing the work. The application shall be accompanied
               by such information as may be necessary to determine whether the installation as described
               will be in conformity with the requirements of the electrical code, as amended. When
               required by the electrical inspector, the applicant shall state the size of conductors
               to be used for all services, mains, feeders and subfeeders, the size of main and subfeeder
               switches and fuses, the area to be served by such conductors and the basis used in
               computing the required sizes of such conductors.

               (Code 2008, § 150.45)"
Sec. 8-181.,Failure to correct defects.,"If a registered electrical contractor fails to correct any defect, error, or deficiency
               in any work installed under the authority of an electrical permit issued to him, within
               ten calendar days after written notification thereof by the electrical inspector or
               within such further reasonable time as may, upon request, be prescribed, the electrical
               inspector shall, without further notice, stop the issuance of permits to such registered
               electrical contractor until such corrections have been made, inspected, and approved.
               In addition thereto, the penalty provided for violation of this chapter may be enforced.

               (Code 2008, § 150.46)"
Sec. 8-183.,Revocation.,"The electrical inspector is authorized to revoke and declare null and void any permit
               obtained under this chapter by fraud, misrepresentation or in any way contrary to
               the requirements of this article. Such a permit may also be revoked and declared null
               and void by the electrical inspector for any violation of the provisions of the electrical
               code or for any other just cause.

               (Code 2008, § 150.48)"
Sec. 8-184.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-016, § 5, adopted July 21, 2014,
                  
               repealed § 8-184 in its entirety. Former § 8-184 pertained to cancellation and reissuance,
               and was derived from Code 2008, § 150.49."
Secs. 8-185—8-190.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 8.,FUEL GAS CODE,NULL
Sec. 8-191.,International Fuel Gas Code adopted.,"The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code is hereby adopted as the official fuel gas code
               of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied into this division
               in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not be included in the
               formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained as a public record
               in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public inspection and
               copying during regular business hours.

               (Ord. No. 2013-027, § 7, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-192.,Local amendments to code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Fuel Gas Code, as adopted herein is hereby amended
               by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit G on file in the office of
               the city secretary.

               (Ord. No. 2013-027, § 7, 6-17-2013)"
Secs. 8-193—8-200.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 9.,INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE,NULL
Sec. 8-201.,International property maintenance code adopted.,"That the 2012 Edition of the International Property Maintenance Code is hereby adopted
               as the official property maintenance code of the city. This property maintenance code
               is fully incorporated by reference as though copied into this division in its entirety.
               The material contained in the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code shall not
               be included in any formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public
               inspection and copying during regular business hours. The Uniform Housing Code is
               hereby repealed and all references to the Uniform Housing Code in the ordinances of
               the city shall be replaced with and shall refer to the 2012 Edition of the International
               Property Maintenance Code.

               (Ord. No. 2013-026, § 1, 6-17-2013)"
Secs. 8-202—8-209.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 10.,INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE,"Footnotes:  --- (7) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-015, § 1, adopted June 22, 2015
                  
               , set out provisions for use herein as div. 10, §§ 8-211, 2-212. Inasmuch as § 8-212
               already existed at the time of codification, those provisions have been included herein
               as §§ 8-210, 8-211."
Sec. 8-210.,International swimming pool and spa code adopted.,"The 2012 edition of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code is hereby adopted
               as the official swimming and spa code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference
               as though copied into this section in its entirety. The material contained in such
               code shall not be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but
               shall be maintained as a public record in the office of the city secretary and will
               be available for public inspection and copying during regular business hours.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-015, § 1, 6-22-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 8-272.,Final report adopted.,"The roadway, water, and wastewater impact fee report dated June 2019, which is attached
               to Ordinance No. 2019-003 as exhibit ""A,"" is incorporated by reference into this article
               and is hereby adopted. To the extent of any conflict between exhibit ""A"" and prior
               versions of the report, exhibit ""A"" shall control. To the extent of any conflict between
               exhibit ""A"" and this article, exhibit ""A"" shall control.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 3, 7-15-2019)"
Sec. 8-211.,International swimming pool and spa code appendices.,"The city also adopts the following appendices to 2012 edition of the International
               Swimming Pool and Spa Code, which appendices are fully incorporated by reference as
               though copied into this section in its entirety:

                                 A

                                 Symbols

                                 B

                                 Field Check List for Identifying Suction Entrapment Hazards

                                 C

                                 Warning — Drowning Hazard

                                 D

                                 Field Verification Procedures for Suction Outlet Safety

                  &nbsp;

               The material contained in these appendices shall not be included in the formal municipal
               codification of ordinances but shall be maintained as a public record in the office
               of the city secretary and will be available for public inspection and copying during
               regular business hours.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-015, § 1, 6-22-2015
                  
               )"
ARTICLE III.,DANGEROUS BUILDINGS,"Footnotes:  --- (8) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority to declare any dilapidated wooden building a nuisance, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code § 342.002; authority to require demolition and repair of substandard structures,
               V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 214.001 et seq."
Sec. 8-212.,"Purpose, scope, title.","(a)

               Purpose. It is the purpose of this article to provide a just, equitable and practical method,
               to be cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by the building
               code, mechanical code, plumbing code, electrical code, fire code, property maintenance
               code, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 214, or otherwise available at law, whereby
               buildings, as defined herein, which from any cause endanger the life, limb, health,
               morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants may be
               required to be repaired, vacated, demolished, removed or secured.

               (b)

               Scope. The provisions of this article shall apply to all buildings which are hereinafter
               defined as dangerous or substandard buildings whether now in existence or whether
               they may hereafter become dangerous or substandard.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.70(1), (2), 7-20-2009; Ord. No. 2013-026, § 2, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 16-103.,Conflicts with code.,"Whenever the International Fire Code conflicts with any other provision of this Code
               or any other city ordinance, state or federal law, such Code provision, ordinance,
               or state or federal law shall be controlling.

               (Code 2008, § 92.23)"
Sec. 8-213.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Building means and includes any building, fence, awning, canopy, sign, shed, garage, house,
               tent or other structure whatsoever and the enumeration of specific types of structures
               shall not be deemed to exclude other types of structures to which the sense and meaning
               of the provisions hereof in context reasonably have application.

               Building code means the building code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted and amended
               by the city.

               City manager means the city manager or the person designated by the city manager to enforce this
               article.

               Electric code means the electrical code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted and
               amended by the city.

               Fire code means the fire code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted and amended
               by the city.

               Mechanical code means the mechanical code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted and
               amended by the city.

               Plumbing code means the plumbing code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted and amended
               by the city.

               Property maintenance code means the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted by the city.

               Residential code means the housing code applicable to the structure in question, as adopted by the
               city.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.70(4), 7-20-2009; Ord. No. 2013-026, § 3, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-216.,Determination by city manager or designee.,"When the city manager or designee has inspected or caused to be inspected any building
               and has found and determined that the building is substandard, the city manager or
               designee may take any or all of the following actions as he or she deems appropriate:

                  (1)

                  Issue notice to the record owner that the building is substandard and must be repaired,
                  listing the deficiencies, or issue notice to the record owner that the building is
                  substandard and that the nature and/or the extent of the deficiencies make repair
                  infeasible so that the building must be demolished, listing the deficiencies;

                  (2)

                  Issue citation for violation of this article;

                  (3)

                  Secure the building if permitted by section 8-221(a); or

                  (4)

                  Recommend to the city council that abatement proceedings be commenced pursuant to section 8-217.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.73, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-217.,Public hearing for abatement of substandard buildings.,"(a)

               Commencement of proceedings. When the city manager or designee has found and determined that a building is a substandard
               building, the city manager or designee shall commence proceedings to cause the repair,
               vacation, relocation of occupants, removal, demolition or securing of the building.

               (b)

               Public hearing to be held. Except when the city council finds that a building is likely to immediately endanger
               persons or property, a public hearing before the city council shall be held to determine
               whether a building complies with the standards set out in section 8-215. If the city council determines that the building constitutes an immediate danger,
               the procedures set forth in section 8-221 shall be followed.

               (c)

               Notice. Not less than ten days prior to the date on which the hearing is set, the city manager
               or designee shall issue a notice of the public hearing directed to the record owner
               of the building and to all mortgagees and lienholders. The city shall use diligent
               efforts to determine the identity and address of any owner, lienholder or mortgagee
               of the building through search of:

               (1)

               The real property records of the county in which the building is located;

               (2)

               Appraisal district records of the appraisal district in which the building is located;

               (3)

               Records of the secretary of state;

               (4)

               Assumed name records of the county in which the building is located;

               (5)

               Tax records of the city; and

               (6)

               Utility records of the city. The notice shall contain:

               a.

               The name and address of the record owner;

               b.

               The street address or legal description sufficient for identification of the premises
               upon which the building is located;

               c.

               A statement that the city manager or designee has found the building to be substandard
               or dangerous, with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to render
               the building dangerous or substandard under the provisions of section 8-215;

               d.

               A statement that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee will be required to submit at
               the hearing proof of the scope of any work that may be required to comply with this
               article and the time it will take to reasonably perform the work;

               e.

               Notice of the time and place of the public hearing;

               f.

               A statement that if the building is found to be in violation of this article, the
               city council may order that the building be vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
               demolished within a reasonable time.

               (d)

               Additional notice of public hearing. Prior to the public hearing, the city may file a copy of the notice mailed pursuant
               to section (c) of this section in the official public records of real property in
               the county in which the property is located. If such notice is not filed of record,
               each identified mortgagee and lienholder must be notified of any abatement order issued
               by the city council at the public hearing prior to any remedial action by the city.

               (e)

               Burden of proof. At the public hearing, the city has the burden of proof to establish that the building
               or structure at issue is not in compliance with applicable city codes, and is substandard
               as defined by this article, and to identify the specific deficiencies or code violations;
               and the owner, lienholder and mortgagee have the burden of proof to establish the
               scope of any work that may be required to comply with this article, the time it will
               take to reasonably perform the work and the financial ability and willingness of the
               owner, lienholder and/or mortgagee to perform the work with diligence and dispatch.

               (f)

               Conduct of public hearing. At the public hearing, the owner of the building and all other interested persons,
               may make their appearance and be heard. Any evidence may be received and considered
               by the city council; provided, however, that the city council shall not consider evidence
               as to the existence or extent of any deficiencies or code violations which were not
               identified in the notice to the record owner described in this section. The mayor,
               or in his absence, the mayor pro tempore, shall preside and shall determine all questions
               of order. The hearing may be adjourned from day to day or continued upon a majority
               vote of the city council.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.74, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-218.,Order of city council.,"(a)

               Findings of the city council.

               (1)

               If the city council, by a majority vote, finds upon evidence presented at the public
               hearing that the building is not in violation of standards set out in section 8-215, the city council shall order that the enforcement action cease; provided, however,
               that such order shall neither prevent the city manager or designee from instituting
               a new enforcement action for other violations the city manager or designee alleges
               have been determined to exist, nor shall such order prevent the city manager or designee
               from instituting a new enforcement action for the same violations if the city manager
               or designee later determines that the conditions as determined by the city council
               have materially changed as to such violations.

               (2)

               If the city council, by a majority vote, finds upon evidence presented at the public
               hearing and the building is in violation of standards set out in section 8-215, and such conditions can reasonably be remedied by repair within a reasonable time,
               and that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee is financially able and is willing to
               conduct or cause such repairs to be made within a reasonable time, the city council
               shall identify the specific violations found to exist, and order that the owner, mortgagee
               or lienholder repair such violations, and, if necessary to the public safety, vacate,
               secure or relocate the occupants within such reasonable times as determined by the
               city council to be appropriate as provided herein.

               (3)

               If the city council, by a majority vote, finds upon evidence presented at the public
               hearing that the building is in violation of standards set out in section 8-215, and that such conditions cannot reasonably be remedied by repair, or that neither
               the owner, lienholder, nor the mortgagee are financially able or willing to conduct
               or cause such repairs to be made within a reasonable time the city council shall identify
               the specific violations found to exist and order that the owner, mortgagee or lienholder
               remove or demolish the structure, and, if necessary to the public safety, vacate,
               secure or relocate the occupants within such reasonable times as determined by the
               city council to be appropriate, as provided herein, or order such other relief as
               is permitted by this chapter.

               (b)

               Time allowed to complete work.

               (1)

               Unless the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee establishes at the hearing that the work
               cannot reasonably be performed within 30 days, the order shall require the owner,
               lienholder or mortgagee of the building to, within 30 days, and the lienholder or
               mortgagee to within an additional 30 days if the owner does not comply, take one or
               more of the following actions:

               a.

               Vacate the building;

               b.

               Secure the building from unauthorized entry;

               c.

               Repair the violations; and/or

               d.

               Remove or demolish the building.

               (2)

               If the owner, lienholder or mortgagee establishes at the hearing that the work cannot
               reasonably be performed within 30 days, and the city council allows the owner, lienholder
               or mortgagee more than 30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the city
               council shall establish specific time schedules as the city council determines are
               appropriate for the commencement and performance of the work and shall require the
               owner, lienholder or mortgagee to secure the property in a reasonable manner from
               unauthorized entry while the work is being performed.

               (3)

               The city council may not allow the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more than 90 days
               to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform all work required to comply
               with the order unless the owner lienholder or mortgagee:

               a.

               Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the hearing; and

               b.

               Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot be reasonably completed within 90
               days because of the scope and complexity of the work.

               (4)

               If the city council allows the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more than 90 days to
               complete any part of the work required to repair, remove or demolish the building,
               the city council shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee to regularly submit
               progress reports to the city manager or designee to demonstrate that the owner, lienholder
               or mortgagee has complied with the time schedules established for commencement and
               performance of the work. The order may require that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee
               appear before the city council or the city manager or designee to:

               a.

               Demonstrate compliance with the time schedules; and

               b.

               If the owner, lienholder or mortgagee, owns property, including structures and improvements
               on property within the city's boundaries that exceeds $100,000.00, to post cash or
               surety bond or letter of credit or third party guaranty to cover the cost of the work
               ordered by the city council.

               (5)

               All orders of the city council must allow a lienholder or mortgagee at least 30 additional
               days to complete the ordered work in the event the owner fails to comply with the
               order within the time provided for action by owner, prior to remedial action by the
               city, except as expressly provided otherwise in this article.

               (c)

               Contents of order. The order of the city council, which is premised on the findings described in subsection
               (a)(2) or (3) of this section, must contain at a minimum:

               (1)

               An identification, which is not required to be a legal description, of the building
               and the property on which it is located;

               (2)

               A description of each violation of minimum standards present in the building;

               (3)

               A description of each of the ordered actions, including a statement that the owner
               may repair, if determined feasible by the city council, or demolish or remove, the
               building at his option;

               (4)

               A statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove or demolish the building and/or
               relocate the occupants of the building if the ordered action is not taken within the
               time allowed, and charge the costs of such actions to the owner, and impose a lien
               against the property for all such costs; and

               (5)

               If the city council has determined that the building will endanger persons or property
               and that the building is a dwelling with ten or fewer dwelling units, a statement
               that the city may repair the building and charge the costs to the to the owner, and
               impose a lien against the property if the ordered action is not taken within the time
               allowed.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.75, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-219.,Notice and enforcement of order of city council.,"(a)

               Order shall be mailed. After the public hearing, the city manager or designee shall promptly mail, by certified
               mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the order to the record owner of the building
               and each identified lienholder and mortgagee of the building.

               (b)

               Order shall be filed with city secretary. Within ten days after the date that the order is issued by the city council, the
               city manager or designee shall file a copy of the order in the office of the city
               secretary.

               (c)

               Order shall be published. Within ten days after the date the order is issued by the city council, the city
               manager or designee shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation within the
               city a notice containing:

               (1)

               The street address or legal description of the property;

               (2)

               The date the hearing was held;

               (3)

               A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and

               (4)

               Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be obtained.

               (d)

               Corrective action. If the order is not complied with, city may take action as provided herein. If the
               building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished within the time
               specified by the order, the city may vacate, secure, repair, remove or demolish the
               building or relocate the occupants at the city's own expense; provided, however:

               (1)

               Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, the city may not act to remove
               or demolish a building until after the city council has found that such defects or
               conditions exist to the extent that the life, health, property or safety of the public
               or the occupants of the building are endangered; and either that:

               a.

               The building is infeasible of repair; or

               b.

               There is no reasonable probability that the building will be repaired within a reasonable
               period of time if additional time is given.

               (2)

               The city may only repair a building as provided herein to the extent necessary to
               correct the conditions which render the building dangerous, and may not act to repair
               a building unless:

               a.

               The city council has made a determination that the building is likely to endanger
               person or property; and

               b.

               The building is a residential dwelling with ten or fewer dwelling units.

               (3)

               In the event there are mortgagees or lienholders, the city may only repair, remove
               or demolish the building after allowing the lienholder or mortgagee an additional
               30 days after the time prescribed in the order has expired to complete the required
               work.

               (4)

               Remedial action by the city does not limit the ability of a municipality to collect
               on a bond or other financial guarantee that may be required by section 8-218(b)(4).

               (e)

               Posting of notice to vacate building. If the order requires vacation or if the order has not been complied with within
               the time specified therein, the city manager or designee is authorized to require
               that the building be vacated. Notice to vacate shall be mailed by certified mail,
               return receipt requested to the occupant of the building and it shall be posted at
               or upon each entrance to the building and shall be in substantially the following
               form:

               SUBSTANDARD BUILDING

               DO NOT ENTER

               UNSAFE TO OCCUPY

               It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice.

               (City Official)

               City of Alvarado

               (f)

               Remedial action by city. Any repair or demolition work, or securing of the building shall be accomplished
               and the cost thereof paid and recovered in the manner hereinafter provided. Any surplus
               realized from the sale of such building, or from the demolition thereof, over and
               above the cost of demolition and cleaning of the lot shall be paid to the person lawfully
               entitled thereto.

               (g)

               Failure to obey order. Any person to whom an order pursuant to section 8-218 is directed, fails, neglects or refuses to comply with such order shall be guilty
               of a misdemeanor and may be prosecuted in municipal court in addition to any other
               remedies available to the city provided herein.

               (h)

               Interference prohibited. No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere with any officer, employee, contractor
               or authorized representative of the city or with any person who owns or holds any
               estate or interest in the building which has been ordered repaired, vacated, demolished,
               removed or secured under the provisions of this article; or with any person to whom
               such building has been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions of this article, whenever
               such officer, employee, contractor or authorized representative of the city, person
               having an interest or estate in such building or purchaser is engaged in the work
               of repairing, vacating and repairing or demolishing, removing or securing any such
               building pursuant to the provision of this article or in performing any necessary
               act preliminary to or incidental to such work or authorized or directed pursuant to
               this article.

               (i)

               Permit required. Any work of closure, repair, removal or demolition by the property owner or any lienholder
               or mortgagee or their agents must be performed pursuant to valid unexpired permits
               issued by the city. All permits issued pursuant to an order of the city council shall
               expire upon expiration of the time for compliance set forth in the order.

               (j)

               Procedure. When any work of repair, removal, demolition or securing is to be performed by the
               city pursuant to the provisions of an order of the city council, the work may be accomplished
               by city personnel or by private contract as may be deemed necessary. Rubble and debris
               shall be removed from any premises and the lot cleaned if removal or demolition is
               ordered. The building or building materials may be sold if removal or demolition is
               ordered, and the proceeds shall be used to offset other costs of the work.

               (k)

               Costs. The cost of such work shall be paid from city funds and shall constitute a special
               assessment and a lien against such property to secure payment thereof, together with
               ten percent interest on such amount from the date on which the work is performed.

               (l)

               Repair to minimum standards only. In the event repair by the city is permitted by this article, the city may repair
               the building at its own expense and assess the expenses on the land on which the building
               stands or is attached to only to the extent necessary to bring the building into compliance
               with minimum standards.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.76, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-214.,Enforcement.,"(a)

               General.

               (1)

               Administration. The city manager or designee is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this
               article. The city manager or designee shall have the power to render interpretations
               of this article and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations in order
               to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations
               shall be in conformity with the intent and purpose of this article.

               (2)

               Inspections. The city manager or designee and the fire marshal or designee are hereby authorized
               to make such inspections and take such actions as may be required to enforce the provisions
               of this article.

               (3)

               Right of entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this article,
               or when the city manager or designee has a reasonable cause to believe that there
               exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation
               of this article which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous,
               the city manager or designee may enter the building or premises at reasonable times
               to inspect or perform the duties imposed by this article; provided that, if such building
               or premises is occupied, that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested.
               If such building or premises is unoccupied, the city manager or designee shall first
               make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
               of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the city manager
               or designee shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.

               (b)

               Abatement of dangerous or substandard buildings. All buildings or portions thereof which are determined after inspection by the city
               manager or designee to be dangerous or substandard as defined by this article are
               hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, vacation, demolition,
               removal or securing in accordance with the procedures specified in this article.

               (c)

               Unlawful to violate article. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or use, occupy, or maintain
               any building that is deemed herein to be a nuisance or cause or permit the same to
               be done in violation of this article.

               (d)

               Inspection authorized. All buildings within the scope of this article and all construction or work for which
               a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by the city manager or designee.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.71, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-215.,Conditions or defects creating substandard or dangerous buildings; declared to be nuisance.,"(a)

               For the purposes of this article, any building, regardless of the date of its construction,
               which has any or all of the conditions or defects, hereinafter described, shall be
               deemed to be a substandard building, and a nuisance:

               (1)

               Whenever any building is dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation and
               a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare in the opinion of the city manager
               or designee.

               (2)

               Whenever any building, regardless of its structural condition, is unoccupied by its
               owners, lessees or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
               extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons as
               a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children.

               (3)

               Any building that is boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:

               a.

               The building constitutes a danger to the public even though secured from entry; or

               b.

               The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent unauthorized entry
               or use of the building in the manner described by subsection (a)(2) of this section.

               (4)

               Whenever any building, because of obsolescence, dilapidated condition, deterioration,
               damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-resistant construction, faulty electric
               wiring, gas connections or heating apparatus or other cause, is determined by the
               fire marshal to be a fire hazard.

               (5)

               Whenever any building is in such a condition as to make a public nuisance known to
               the common law or in equity jurisprudence.

               (6)

               Whenever any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition or destruction
               of the building.

               (7)

               Whenever any building is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof
               an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.

               (8)

               Any building constructed and still existing in violation of any provision of the building
               code, fire code, plumbing code, mechanical code, electrical code, or property maintenance
               code of the city to the extent that the life, health or safety of the public or any
               occupant is endangered.

               (b)

               For the purposes of this article, any building, regardless of the date of its construction,
               which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter described to an extent
               that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or
               the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to be a substandard building,
               and a nuisance:

               (1)

               Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit is not of sufficient
               width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate means of exit
               in case of fire or panic.

               (2)

               Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
               exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to not provide safe and
               adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.

               (3)

               Whenever the stress in any materials, or members or portion thereof, due to all dead
               and live loads, is more than 1½ times the working stresses allowed in the building
               code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location.

               (4)

               Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood or
               by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or stability thereof
               is materially less than it was before such catastrophe and is less than the minimum
               requirements of the building code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose
               or location.

               (5)

               Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to fail, or to become
               detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or damage property.

               (6)

               Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or ornamentation on
               the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or stability, or is not so anchored,
               attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting a wind pressure of
               one-half of that specified in the building code for new buildings of similar structure,
               purpose or location without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the building
               code for such buildings.

               (7)

               Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled to such an extent
               that walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds or
               earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new construction.

               (8)

               Whenever the building, or any portion thereof, because of:

               a.

               Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;

               b.

               Faulty construction;

               c.

               The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the
               purpose of supporting such building;

               d.

               The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or

               e.

               Any other cause;

               is likely to partially or completely collapse.

               (9)

               Whenever, for any reason, the building, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe
               for the purpose for which it is being used.

               (10)

               Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle
               to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of gravity does not
               fall inside the middle one-third of the base.

               (11)

               Whenever the building, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33 percent or more damage
               or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50 or more percent damage
               or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside walls or coverings.

               (12)

               Whenever the building has been so damaged by fire, wind, earthquake, flood or other
               causes, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:

               a.

               An attractive nuisance to children; or

               b.

               A harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons.

               (13)

               Whenever any building has been constructed, exists or is maintained in violation of
               any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such building provided by the
               building regulations of this jurisdiction, as specified in the building code, or of
               any law or ordinance of this state or jurisdiction relating to the condition, location
               or structure of buildings.

               (14)

               Whenever any building which, whether or not erected in accordance with all applicable
               laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting part, member or portion less than 50
               percent, or in any supporting part, member or portion less than 66 percent of the
               strength, fire-resistant qualities or characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities
               or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of
               like area, height and occupancy in the same location.

               (15)

               Whenever a building, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of
               inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement,
               inadequate light, air or sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the
               city manager or designee to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a
               condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease for reasons including, but not
               limited to the following:

               a.

               Lack of or improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub or shower in a dwelling unit or
               lodginghouse.

               b.

               Lack of or improper water closets, lavatories and bathtubs or showers per number of
               guests in a hotel.

               c.

               Lack of or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit.

               d.

               Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel.

               e.

               Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a dwelling unit or lodginghouse.

               f.

               Lack of adequate heating facilities.

               g.

               Lack of, or improper operation of, required ventilating equipment.

               h.

               Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required by this code.

               i.

               Room and space dimensions less than required by this Code, the building code, or the
               property maintenance code.

               j.

               Lack of required electrical lighting.

               k.

               Dampness of habitable rooms.

               l.

               Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents.

               m.

               General dilapidation or improper maintenance.

               n.

               Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system.

               o.

               Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal facilities.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.72, 7-20-2009; Ord. No. 2013-026, §§ 4, 5, 6-17-2013)"
Sec. 8-220.,"Recovery of cost to secure, repair, remove or demolish.","(a)

               Itemized account and notice of lien. The city manager or designee shall keep an itemized account of the expenses incurred
               by the city in the securing, repair, removal or demolition of any building pursuant
               to this article. Upon completion of the work, the city manager or designee shall prepare
               and file with the city secretary a sworn account and notice of lien containing the
               following information:

               (1)

               The name and address of the owner if that information can be determined with a reasonable
               effort;

               (2)

               A legal description of the real property on which the building is or was located;

               (3)

               The type of work performed; and

               (4)

               The amount of expenses incurred by the city in performing the work and the balance
               due.

               (b)

               Notice filed in county records. The city secretary shall file the notice of lien along with a copy of the order of
               abatement issued by the city council in the deed records of the county in which the
               premises are located.

               (c)

               Personal obligation of property owner. The expenses incurred by the city as set forth in the sworn account of the city manager
               or designee shall be a personal obligation of the property owner in addition to a
               priority lien upon the property. The city attorney may bring an action in any court
               of proper jurisdiction against the owner or property to recover the costs incurred
               by the city.

               (d)

               Lien shall be valid and privileged. Upon filing of the notice of lien in the deed records of the county, the lien shall
               be valid against the property so assessed. The lien shall be privileged and subordinate
               only to tax liens and shall be paramount to all other liens. The lien shall continue
               until the assessment and all interest due and payable thereon has been paid.

               (e)

               Assessment must be paid. No utility service, building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be allowed
               on any such property until the assessment is paid and such lien is released by the
               city.

               (f)

               Release of lien. After the expenses incurred by the city, as set forth in the sworn account of the
               city manager or designee, have been fully paid with interest of ten percent per annum
               from the date the work was performed, the city manager or designee shall execute a
               release of lien which shall be filed in the deed records of the county.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.77, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-221.,Additional authority regarding certain substandard or dangerous buildings.,"(a)

               Securing of unoccupied, substandard building. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, the city may secure a building
               if the city manager or designee determines:

               (1)

               That the building violates the minimum standards set forth in this chapter; and

               (2)

               That the building is unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do not have the
               right of possession to the building.

               (b)

               If building creates immediate danger. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, if the city council finds that
               a building is likely to immediately endanger persons or property the city council
               may order the city manager or designee to repair, remove or demolish the structure,
               or the dangerous part of the structure, at the expense of the city and assess the
               repair, removal, or demolition expenses on the property on which the structure was
               located.

               (c)

               Notice of action. Before the 11th day after the date the building is secured, or the building is repaired,
               removed or demolished pursuant to this section, the city manager or designee shall
               give notice to the owner by:

               (1)

               Personally serving the owner with written notice; or

               (2)

               Depositing the notice in the United States mail addressed to the owner at the owner's
               post office address;

               (3)

               Or if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office address is unknown,
               by:

               a.

               Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in a newspaper of general
               circulation in the county in which the building is located; and

               b.

               Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if personal service cannot
               be obtained and the owner's post office address is unknown; and

               c.

               In addition to the above, depositing notice in the United States mail to all lienholders
               and mortgagees who can be determined from a reasonable search of the records described
               in section 8-217(c).

               (d)

               Notice. The notice must contain:

               (1)

               An identification, which is not required to be a legal description, of the building
               and the property on which it is located;

               (2)

               A description of each of the violations of the minimum standards present in the building;

               (3)

               A statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the case may be, the building,
               or that the city has taken the action ordered pursuant to subsection (b) of this section;
               and

               (4)

               An explanation of the owner's entitlement to request a hearing about any matter relating
               to the city's securing, removing, demolishing or repairing of the building.

               (e)

               Hearing. The city council shall conduct a hearing at which the owner, lienholder and mortgagee
               may testify or present witnesses or written information about any matter relating
               to the city's securing, repairing, removing or demolishing of the building, if, within
               30 days after the date the city has taken action pursuant to subsection (a) or (b)
               of this section, and the owner files with the city a written request for the hearing.
               The hearing shall be conducted within 20 days after the date the request is filed.

               (f)

               Lien. If the city incurs expenses under this section, such expenses incurred shall be a
               personal obligation of the property owner and costs shall be recovered as provided
               by section 8-220.

               (g)

               Violation. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with an order issued pursuant to this section.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.78, 7-20-2009)"
Sec. 8-222.,Civil penalty.,"(a)

               Civil penalty authorized. In addition to any other enforcement authority provided for by law, the city council
               may, by order, at an administrative hearing assess a civil penalty against a property
               owner as provided for herein for failure to comply with an order issued by the city
               council pursuant to section 8-218.

               (b)

               Showing required. The civil penalty may be assessed if it is shown at the administrative hearing that:

               (1)

               The property owner was notified of the contents of the order issued pursuant to section 8-218; and

               (2)

               The property owner committed an act in violation of the order or failed to take an
               action necessary for compliance with the order.

               (c)

               Amount of penalty. The civil penalty may be assessed in an amount not to exceed $1,000.00 per day for
               each violation or, if the owner shows that the property is the owner's lawful homestead,
               in an amount not to exceed $10.00 per day for each violation.

               (d)

               Notice of administrative hearing. Not less than ten days prior to the date on which the administrative hearing is set,
               the property owner shall be sent a notice of the hearing by certified mail/return
               receipt requested. The notice shall contain:

               (1)

               A copy of the order issued by the city council to section 8-218;

               (2)

               A statement that the city manager or designee has determined that the property owner
               committed an act in violation of that order, or failed to take an action necessary
               for compliance with that order, together with a description of the acts that violated
               the order, or a description of what actions the owner failed to take that were necessary
               for compliance with the order;

               (3)

               A statement that at the administrative hearing the city council may assess a civil
               penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per day for each violation or, if the owner shows
               that the property is the owner's lawful homestead in an amount not to exceed $10.00
               per day for each violation; and

               (4)

               Notice of the time and place of the hearing.

               (e)

               Copy of order filed with district clerk. After the civil penalty is assessed, the city secretary shall file with the district
               clerk of the county in which the property is located, a certified copy of the order
               assessing the civil penalty stating the amount and duration of the penalty.

               (f)

               Enforcement. The civil penalty may be enforced by the city in a suit brought by the city in a
               court of competent jurisdiction for a final judgment in accordance with the assessed
               penalty. A civil penalty under this subsection is final and binding and constitutes
               prima facie evidence of the penalty in any suit.

               (Ord. No. 2009-021, § 150.79, 7-20-2009)"
Secs. 8-223—8-252.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,BUILDING NUMBERING,NULL
Sec. 8-253.,Building number system.,"(a)

               All building numbers on the right side of a street, moving from the city square outward,
               shall be even and those on the left side shall be odd. The first block will be the
               100 block and all subsequent blocks shall be increased by increments of 100.

               (b)

               All north-south streets shall be numbered from College Street; all east-west streets
               shall be numbered from Spears Street.

               (c)

               The director of public works will assign building numbers. All numbering will be under
               his supervision and will be recognized as the official number of the building.

               (Code 2008, § 150.80)"
Sec. 8-254.,Display of building number required.,"The owner of a lot or tract on which one or more buildings or structures have been
               located shall place the appropriate building number (street address number) in a clearly
               identifiable location on the front (that portion facing the street) of the primary
               building on the lot or tract. If more than one primary building is located on the
               lot or tract, each primary building shall be separately identified with an appropriate
               number. Said number shall be not less than four inches in height, shall be black or
               such other color that contrasts with the principal building or structure color, and
               shall be located so that emergency service personnel can easily read and identify
               the address enumeration. Reflective colors are encouraged to ensure better visibility
               at night.

               (Code 2008, § 150.81; Ord. No. 2004-042, 9-20-2004)"
Sec. 8-255.,Destroying or defacing.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy or deface any building number.

               (Code 2008, § 150.82)"
Secs. 8-256—8-270.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,IMPACT FEES ON NEW DEVELOPMENT,NULL
Sec. 8-271.,Land use assumptions and capital improvements plans approved.,"In accordance with chapter 395 of the Texas Local Government Code, the City Council
               has employed qualified professionals to prepare land use assumptions and capital improvements
               plans for the imposition of roadway, water and wastewater impact fees within the respective
               service areas. Those land use assumptions and capital improvements plans were approved
               after a public hearing in accordance with chapter 395 on April 15, 2019.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 2, 7-15-2019)"
Sec. 8-273.,Water and wastewater impact fees.,"A fee shall be charged against new development in the city or its extraterritorial
               jurisdiction within the respective water and wastewater service areas defined in exhibit
               ""A"". The fee shall be assessed and collected at rates based on the water meter size.
               The maximum assessable water and wastewater impact fees are in an amount equal to
               the amounts set forth in the table below multiplied by a factor of two. The water
               and wastewater impact fees shall be collected only in the following amounts:

                                 Meter Size (Type)

                                 Water

                                 Wastewater

                                 Service Unit Equivalent

                                 5/8 × 3/4"" (multi-jet)

                                 $ 1,160.00

                                 $  2,541.00

                                 1.0

                                 3/4"" (multi-jet)

                                 1,740.00

                                 3,812.00

                                 1.5

                                 1"" (multi-jet)

                                 2,900.00

                                 6,353.00

                                 2.5

                                 1 1/2"" (multi-jet)

                                 5,800.00

                                 12,705.00

                                 5.0

                                 2"" (compound)

                                 9,280.00

                                 20,328.00

                                 8.0

                                 3"" (compound)

                                 20,300.00

                                 44,468.00

                                 17.5

                                 4"" (compound)

                                 36,540.00

                                 80,042.00

                                 31.5

                                 6"" (compound)

                                 75,400.00

                                 165,165.00

                                 65.0

                  &nbsp;

               The current collected water and wastewater fees may be amended by the City Council
               from time to time, provided they do not exceed the maximum assessable water and wastewater
               impact fees.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 4, 7-15-2019)"
ARTICLE IV.,FIRE CODE,NULL
Sec. 16-101.,Code enforcement.,"The International Fire Code shall be enforced by the city under the supervision of
               the fire chief.

               (Code 2008, § 92.21)"
Sec. 16-102.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Jurisdiction means the city.

               (Code 2008, § 92.22)"
Sec. 8-274.,Roadway impact fees.,"A fee shall be charged against new development in the city limits within the respective
               roadway service areas defined in exhibit ""A"". The maximum assessable roadway impact
               fee per service unit for each service area and the roadway impact fee collection rate
               per service unit for each service area are as follows:

                                 Service Area

                                 Maximum Assessable Roadway Impact Fee Per Service Unit

                                 Roadway Impact Fee Collection Rate Per Service Unit

                                 1

                                 $1,673.00

                                 $836.00

                                 2

                                  1,677.00

                                  836.00

                  &nbsp;

               The current collected roadway impact fee may be amended by the City Council from time
               to time, provided they do not exceed the maximum assessable roadway impact fees.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 5, 7-15-2019)"
Sec. 8-275.,Calculation of roadway impact fees.,"The service unit measurement is stated in vehicle-miles. A development unit is equal
               to one single-family or multi-family dwelling unit or 1,000 square feet of gross floor
               area for non-residential uses. Gross floor area includes the square feet of each floor
               of a building. The city shall identify the service area in which the new development
               is located and classify the development into one of the categories in the service
               unit equivalency table, set forth in the roadway, water, and wastewater impact fee
               report attached to Ordinance
               
                  2019-003
                  
               as Exhibit ""A."" The number of development units for the development is calculated
               and multiplied by the vehicle-miles per development unit set forth in the service
               unit equivalency table to give the total vehicle-miles for the development. The total
               vehicle-miles for the development is multiplied by the current collected roadway impact
               fee per service unit for the corresponding service area. The result is the total roadway
               impact fee for the development.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 6, 7-15-2019)"
Sec. 8-276.,Assessment.,"Assessment of the impact fees for any new development shall be based on the impact
               fee per service unit in effect at the time of assessment. For a new development which
               has received final plat approval before July 15, 2019, the impact fees shall be assessed
               as of July 15, 2019. For a development which has received final plat approval on or
               following July 15, 2019, assessment shall be at the time of final plat recordation.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 9, 7-15-2019)"
ARTICLE VII.,ROUGH PROPORTIONALITY,NULL
Sec. 8-277.,Collection.,"No building permit shall be issued or water or wastewater connection allowed until
               all impact fees have been paid to the city. Impact fees shall be collected at the
               time of issuance of the building permit or, for property outside the city limits,
               at the time an application for connection to the city's water or wastewater system
               is filed. On property that receives final plat approval before July 15, 2019, no impact
               fees shall be collected on any service unit for which a valid building permit is issued
               within one year of July 15, 2019. If a building permit obtained within one year of
               July 15, 2019 subsequently expires, and no new application is made and approved within
               such period, the new development shall be subject to the payment of the impact fees
               adopted in this article.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2019-003
                  
               , § 10, 7-15-2019)"
Chapter 9,BUSINESS REGULATIONS,NULL
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Secs. 9-1—9-19.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS,NULL
Sec. 9-20.,Sale of beer prohibited in residential areas.,"The sale of beer shall be prohibited in all residential areas of the city. No permit
               shall be issued for the sale of beer in any residential area of the city. For the
               purpose of this section, the term ""residential area"" shall include all areas of the
               city presently zoned residential and all land hereinafter zoned residential, provided
               that this section shall not apply to any permit issued for premises zoned commercial
               at the time of such issuance and subsequently rezoned residential.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 9-21.,"Regulations prohibiting sale of alcoholic beverages near a church, public or private school, or public hospital.","(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person or entity who is engaged in the business of selling
               alcoholic beverages to sell the same at a place of business that is within:

               (1)

               Three hundred feet of a church, public or private school, or public hospital; or

               (2)

               One thousand feet of a private school if the city council receives a request from
               the governing body of the private school, and deems it appropriate given all circumstances.

               (b)

               The measurement of the distance between the place of business where alcoholic beverages
               are sold and the church or public hospital shall be along the property lines of the
               street fronts and from front door to front door, and in direct line across intersections.

               (c)

               The measurement of the distance between the place of business where alcoholic beverages
               are sold and the public or private school shall be:

               (1)

               In a direct line from the property line of the public or private school to the property
               line of the place of business, and in a direct line across intersections; or

               (2)

               If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth story of a multistory
               building, in a direct line from the property line of the public or private school
               to the property line of the place of business, in a direct line across intersections,
               and vertically up the building at the property line to the base of the floor on which
               the permit or license holder is located.

               (d)

               Every applicant for an original alcoholic beverage license or permit for a location
               with a door by which the public may enter the place of business of the applicant that
               is within 1,000 feet of the nearest property line of a public or private school, measured
               along street lines and directly across intersections, must give written notice of
               the application to officials of the public or private school before filing the application
               with the city and the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission. A copy of the notice must
               be submitted to the city and the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission with the application.
               This subsection does not apply to a permit or license covering a location where minors
               are prohibited from entering the premises under V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code
               § 109.53.

               (e)

               Subsection (a)(1) does not apply to the holder of a license or permit covering a premises
               that is located within 300 feet of a private school if the permit holder also holds
               a food and beverage certificate for the covered premises or if the permit covers a
               premises where minors are prohibited from entering under V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage
               Code § 109.53.

               (1)

               In this subsection, ""private school"" means a private school, including a parochial
               school, that offers a course of instruction for students in one or more grades from
               kindergarten through grade 12 and has more than 100 students enrolled and attending
               courses at a single location.

               (f)

               Subsection (a)(2) does not apply to the holder of:

               (1)

               A retail on-premises consumption permit or license if less than 50 percent of the
               gross receipts for the premises is from the sale or service of alcoholic beverages;
               or

               (2)

               A retail off-premises consumption permit or license if less than 50 percent of the
               gross receipts for the premises, excluding the sale of items subject to the motor
               fuels tax, is from the sale or service of alcoholic beverages.

               (3)

               The holder of a permit issued under V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code ch. 27, 31 or 72 who is operating on the premises of a private school or a permit covering a
               premises where minors are prohibited from entering under V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage
               Code § 109.53 and that is located within 1,000 feet of a private school.

               (g)

               To the extent applicable under V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code § 109.331, the provisions
               of subsection (a)(1) relating to a public school also apply to a day-care center and
               child-care facility as those terms are defined in V.T.C.A., Human Resources Code §
               42.002.

               (h)

               As authorized by V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code § 109.36, the city council may
               allow a variance to this article if it determines that the enforcement of the regulations
               in a particular instance is not in the best interest of the public, constitutes waste
               or inefficient use of land and resources, creates an undue hardship on the applicant
               for a license or permit, does not serve its intended purpose, is not effective or
               necessary, or for any other reason the city council determines, after consideration
               of the health, safety and welfare of the public and the equities of the situation,
               that the variance is in the best interest of the community.

               (1)

               No variance may be granted hereunder except after a public hearing for which notice
               has been given to owners of real property within 300 feet of the location of the place
               of business seeking a variance.

               (2)

               The notice must be provided, not less than ten days before the date set for the hearing,
               to all such owners who have rendered their property for city taxes, as the ownership
               appears on the last approved city tax roll.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 10-1.,Authorized cemeteries.,"The existing dedicated cemeteries now established within the city are recognized and
               authorized as legal and proper places for the interment of a person who may die in
               the city or may be brought to the city for burial.

               (Code 2008, § 93.70)"
Sec. 10-2.,Extension of cemeteries.,"The limits of the existing cemeteries or any other that may be hereafter established
               or authorized by ordinance shall never be extended, unless authority has been granted
               by the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 93.71)"
Sec. 9-22.,Permit or license required.,"(a)

               No person shall sell alcoholic beverages in the city unless a permit or license authorizing
               such sale is first issued by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission and remains in
               effect.

               (b)

               No permit or license shall be issued except in conformance with all state and city
               regulations.

               (c)

               A fee for each issued permit or license to sell alcoholic beverages, the amount of
               which shall equal one-half the state fee excluding surcharges collected under V.T.C.A.,
               Alcoholic Beverage Code, § 5.56, is established in the fee schedule in the appendix
               of the City Code. The permit or license fee shall be collected by the city when the
               permit or license is issued.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 9-23.,"Hours for sale of alcoholic beverages, wine and beer, if permitted.","If the sale of alcoholic beverages, wine or beer for off-premises consumption is permitted
               by the Code, the hours permitted for the sale of alcoholic beverages, wine or beer
               shall be governed by V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code §§ 105.04 and 105.05, as now
               written or hereafter amended.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 9-24.,Regulation of food and beverage certificate holders.,"(a)

               A person or entity engaged in the sale of mixed beverages in a restaurant under a
               food and beverage certificate shall, on an annual basis, on a day coinciding with
               the date that such information is furnished to the state, file with the city secretary
               an affidavit showing the gross receipts and sales of the business. The affidavit shall
               contain a statement reflecting the gross receipts attributable to the premises and
               the gross receipts attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages.

               (b)

               The food and beverage certificate holder shall also file with the city secretary,
               on an annual basis, on a date coinciding with the date such information is furnished
               to the state, the gross receipts and figures furnished to the state for sales tax
               and alcoholic beverage tax purposes. This provision applies to restaurants, cafes,
               cafeterias or eating establishments and to a permittee of a federal or state agency.

               (c)

               The food and beverage certificate holder shall also furnish receipts from suppliers
               upon request of the city secretary. Such receipts shall reflect current operations
               and operations for the previous 12 months.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 9-25.,Alcoholic beverage permit fees.,"(a)

               A fee in the maximum amount allowed by state law is hereby adopted and imposed upon
               each original or renewal license or permit issued to sell alcoholic beverages.

               Annual fee for a wine and beer retailer's off-premises permit .....$ 30.00

               Annual fee for a mixed beverage permit * .....375.00

               * Pursuant to V.T.C.A., Alcoholic Beverage Code § 11.38(d), the annual fee for a mixed
               beverage permit shall not be charged during the three-year period following issuance
               of the permit.

               A fee imposed under this section shall be collected for each license or permit issued
               regardless of whether the amount of the fee is set forth in the Fee Schedule.

               (b)

               No person shall engage in the business of selling or serving alcoholic beverages within
               the city without first having paid the applicable permit or license fees established
               by the city.

               (Ord. No. 2011-035, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Secs. 9-26—9-40.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES,NULL
Sec. 9-41.,Adoption of preamble.,"The findings contained in the preamble of the ordinance from which this article derived
               are determined to be true and correct and are adopted as a part of this article.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-42.,Purpose and intent.,"It is the purpose of this article to regulate sexually oriented businesses to promote
               the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to
               establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually
               oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this article have neither the
               purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
               materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
               nor effect of this article to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
               materials protected by the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and
               exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-43.,Definitions.,"The words and terms used in this article that are not defined herein shall have the
               meanings commonly ascribed to them. Words used in the present tense include the future
               tense. Words in the singular number include the plural number and words in the plural
               number include the singular number. The word he shall be defined to include the word
               she.

               Adult arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated,
               token-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or
               motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained
               to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
               images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting
               or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.

               Adult bookstore means a commercial establishment which as one of its business purposes offers for
               sale or rental for any form of consideration books, magazines, periodicals or other
               printed matters, or any combination thereof, which are distinguished or characterized
               by an emphasis on matters depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
               anatomical areas.

               Adult cabaret means a nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial establishment which regularly
               features persons who appear in a state of nudity or give live performances which are
               distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure of specified anatomical
               areas or by an emphasis on specified sexual activities.

               Adult motel means a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:

                  (1)

                  Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration and provides patrons
                  with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
                  slides, or other pornographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized
                  by an emphasis on matters depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
                  anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way which advertises
                  the availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions; or

                  (2)

                  Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than ten hours;
                  or

                  (3)

                  Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for a period of
                  time that is less than ten hours.

               Adult movie theater means a commercial establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion
               pictures, video cassettes, video reproductions, slides or other visual representations,
               or any combination thereof, are regularly shown which are distinguished or characterized
               by an emphasis on matters depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
               anatomical areas.

               Adult novelty store means a commercial establishment which as one of its business purposes offers for
               sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:

                  (1)

                  Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
                  pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions, slides, objects, or other visual
                  representations which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
                  anatomical areas; or

                  (2)

                  Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed or manufactured for use
                  in connection with specified sexual activities. This does not include items used for
                  birth control or for prevention of sexually transmitted diseases.

               Adult service establishment means a commercial establishment which offers services or sells products to customers
               and in which one or more of the employees or the customer appears in a state of nudity
               or simulated nudity.

               Adult video store means a commercial establishment which as one of its business purposes offers for
               sale or rental for any form of consideration photographs, films, motion pictures,
               video cassettes, video reproductions, slides or other visual representations, or any
               combination thereof, which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
               depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.

               Chief of police means the chief of police of the city or the chiefs designated representative.

               Customer means any person who:

                  (1)

                  Is allowed to enter a sexually oriented business in return for the payment of an admission
                  fee or any other form of consideration or gratuity; or

                  (2)

                  Enters a sexually oriented business and purchases, rents, or otherwise partakes of
                  any merchandise, goods, entertainment, or other services offered therein; or

                  (3)

                  Is a member of and on the premises of a sexually oriented business operating as a
                  private club.

               Employee means any person who renders any service whatsoever to the customers of a sexually
               oriented business or who works in or about a sexually oriented business and who receives
               compensation for such service or work from the operator or owner of the sexually oriented
               business or from its customers.

               Escort means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a companion or
               date for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to
               privately perform a striptease for another person.

               Escort agency means a person or business association who, as one of its principal business purposes,
               furnishes, offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts, or any combination
               thereof, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.

               Licensee means a person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented business has
               been issued, as well as any and all individuals listed as applicants on the application
               for a license.

               Licensed day-care center means a child care center as defined in section 42-673.

               Manager means any person:

                  (1)

                  Who supervises, directs or manages any employee of a sexually oriented business or

                  (2)

                  Who is charged by the licensee, owner, or operator with directly supervising the operation
                  of the sexually oriented business and with monitoring and observing all areas of the
                  enterprise to which customers are admitted at all times during which the enterprise
                  is open for business or customers are on the premises.

               Nude modeling studio means any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or displays specified
               anatomical areas is provided or allowed to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
               sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any
               form of consideration.

               Nudity or state of nudity means less than completely and opaquely covered:

                  (1)

                  Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;

                  (2)

                  All portions of a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola
                  continuing downward to the lowest portion of the breast;

                  (3)

                  Human buttock; or

                  (4)

                  Any combination of the above.

               Operated or causes to be operated means to cause to function or to put or keep in operation. A person may be found
               to be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or
               not that person is an owner, part owner, licensee, or manager of the establishment.

               Person means an individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, foundation,
               company or corporation.

               Regularly means featuring, promoting, or advertising a happening or occurrence on a recurring
               basis.

               Residential district means a district zoned for residential uses under chapter 42.

               Residential use means a one family, townhouse, duplex, mobile home, manufactured home, or multiple-family
               dwelling as defined in chapter 42.

               Sex parlor means an establishment that is operated for the purpose of giving massages, at the
               establishment or on a home-call basis, which are intended to provide sexual stimulation
               or sexual gratification in combination with a massage.

               Sexual encounter center means a business or commercial enterprise that offers for any form of consideration
               physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
               sex, or activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex,
               when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or simulated nudity.

               Sexually oriented business means an adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult novelty store, adult
               motel, adult movie theater, adult service establishment, adult video store, sex parlor,
               sexual encounter center, nude modeling studio or other commercial enterprise, or any
               combination thereof, which devotes a significant or substantial portion of its business
               to the offering of a service or the selling, renting or exhibiting of devices or any
               other items intended to provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to its
               customers, and which is distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on matter
               depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
               areas, or whose employees or customers appear in a state of nudity. As used in this
               definition, significant or substantial portion shall be construed with reference to
               all relevant factors, including but not limited to the following:

                  (1)

                  Whether the business uses advertising or signage identifying the business as having
                  sexually explicit merchandise or services for sale, rental, or viewing, including
                  the use of terms such as adult, sex, or XXX;

                  (2)

                  The proportion of retail floor space, display areas, presentation time, or stock in
                  trade devoted to sexually explicit content (Stock in trade shall be measured with
                  all titles or objects available on the premises for sale or rental including those
                  that are identical, considered a separate title or object.);

                  (3)

                  The percentage of the business's overall sales or revenues attributable to sexually
                  explicit content; and

                  (4)

                  The percentage of sales or revenues attributable to sexually explicit content within
                  each category of merchandise, including books, magazines, movies for rental, movies
                  for sale, movies for on-site viewing, performances, sexual paraphernalia, or other
                  products or services.

               The term ""sexually oriented business"" shall not be construed to include:

                  (1)

                  Any business operated by or employing licensed psychologists, licensed physical therapists,
                  registered massage therapists, registered nurses, or licensed athletic trainers engaged
                  in practicing such licensed professions;

                  (2)

                  Any business operated by or employing licensed physicians or licensed chiropractors
                  engaged in practicing the healing arts;

                  (3)

                  Any retail establishment whose principal business is the offering of wearing apparel
                  for sale to customers, which does not exhibit merchandise on live models, and which
                  does not offer for sale or rental any:

                  a.

                  Materials of any kind containing depictions of specified anatomical areas; or

                  b.

                  Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed or manufactured for use
                  in connection with specified sexual activities; or

                  (4)

                  Any activity conducted or sponsored by any state independent school district, licensed
                  or accredited private school, or public or private college or university.

               Simulated nudity means a state of dress in which any device or covering is worn and exposed to view
               that simulates any part of the genitals, buttocks, anus, pubic region, or areola of
               the female breast.

               Specified anatomical areas means human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and female breast below a point immediately
               above the top of the areola.

               Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:

                  (1)

                  The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, pubic hair,
                  perineum, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;

                  (2)

                  Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation,
                  sodomy, or bestiality;

                  (3)

                  Masturbation, actual or simulated; or

                  (4)

                  Excretory functions.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-44.,Hours of operation.,"No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at any time
               between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays,
               and 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 2:00 p.m. on Sundays.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-45.,Location.,"(a)

               Except as permitted in subsection (b), a person commits an offense if he establishes,
               operates or causes to be operated, or expands a sexually oriented business within
               1,000 feet of any of the following uses or locations within the city limits or extraterritorial
               jurisdiction of the city:

               (1)

               A church or synagogue;

               (2)

               A public or private elementary or secondary school or licensed day-care center;

               (3)

               A boundary of a residential district (including, but not limited to, zoning classifications
               SF-1, SF-2, TF, MF, MH-1, and MH-2).

               (4)

               A public park;

               (5)

               A public library;

               (6)

               The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined in this article;
               or

               (7)

               Another sexually oriented business.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if he establishes, operates or causes to be operated,
               a sexually oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof containing
               another sexually oriented business.

               (c)

               For the purposes of subsection (a), measurement shall be made in a straight line,
               without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the
               building or structure used as part of the premises where a sexually oriented business
               is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed in subsections
               (a)(1)—(7).

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-50.,License for nonconforming sexually oriented business.,"(a)

               Notwithstanding anything contained in this article to the contrary, the chief of police
               shall issue a nonconforming sexually oriented business license to a nonconforming
               sexually oriented business under section 9-46 if the chief of police finds:

               (1)

               A proper application for a license has been made in accordance with this article;

               (2)

               The applicant would qualify for a license under the provisions of section 9-49(a)(2)—(11);

               (3)

               The sexually oriented business is a nonconforming use under the provisions of section 9-46;

               (4)

               The building in which the applicant proposes to locate the sexually oriented business
               is not a dangerous or substandard building pursuant to applicable ordinances of the
               city; and

               (5)

               The sexually oriented business complies with all other requirements of this article.

               (b)

               A nonconforming sexually oriented business license issued under this section shall
               be subject to expiration, suspension, revocation, appeal, transfer and all other requirements
               of this article that are applicable to sexually oriented business licenses.

               (c)

               The issuance of a nonconforming sexually oriented business license shall not be deemed
               to make the sexually oriented business a legal use or to grant any other rights or
               waivers other than to allow the nonconforming sexually oriented business to operate
               in compliance with section 9-47(a).

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-46.,Nonconforming uses.,"(a)

               Any sexually oriented business that is in violation of section 9-45 or any other location requirement of any other city ordinances, that was legally
               operating on the effective date of adoption or amendment of such ordinance or regulation,
               shall be deemed a nonconforming use and the provisions of article VI of chapter 42 shall apply, except if two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000
               feet of each other, or are located in the same building or structure, and otherwise
               in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business that was first established
               and continually operating as a sexually oriented business at a particular location
               (regardless of which business was first located in the city), even if operating under
               a different name, ownership, or selling different sexually oriented merchandise or
               services, is the conforming use and the later-established business is nonconforming.

               (b)

               The provisions of this section shall also apply to legally operating sexually oriented
               businesses made nonconforming by annexation into the city limits.

               (c)

               Any sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating within the city as a conforming
               use on or after the effective date of this article, shall not be rendered a nonconforming
               use by the subsequent location of a protected use listed in section 9-45(a) within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business.

               (d)

               Nonconforming sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to amortization under
               the procedures set forth in chapter 42.

               (e)

               Notwithstanding anything contained in this article or in article VI of chapter 42 to the contrary, a nonconforming sexually oriented business shall be required to
               meet all applicable requirements of this article except locational requirements established
               by section 9-45(a)—(c) and the prohibition on nudity established by section 9-59 within 60 days of the date that it becomes nonconforming. The zoning board of adjustment
               may grant a nonconforming sexually oriented business an extension if the business
               shows, upon written application, that meeting these requirements within 60 days imposes
               an unnecessary hardship on the business.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-47.,License—Required.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
               business without a valid sexually oriented business license or nonconforming sexually
               oriented business license, issued by the city for the particular type of business.

               (b)

               The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this article.

               (c)

               The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits or licenses
               does not exempt the person from the requirement of obtaining a license for a sexually
               oriented business.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-48.,Same—Application.,"(a)

               Any person desiring to obtain a sexually oriented business license shall make application
               on a form provided by the chief of police. The application must:

               (1)

               Be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan of the premises, specifying
               the location of all overhead lighting fixtures, designating any portion of the premises
               in which customers will not be permitted, and specifying the location of all manager's
               stations, if applicable. The diagram shall designate the place at which the license
               will be conspicuously displayed, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in
               the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required; however,
               each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated street or object
               and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to
               show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises
               to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;

               (2)

               Contain all information required pursuant to section 9-49 and be supported by any necessary documentation;

               (3)

               Include a current list of all employees or prospective employees, along with copies
               of complete updated employment application, valid driver's license, state identification
               card, or passport containing a photograph of the employee;

               (4)

               Contain any other information requested by the chief of police in order to assist
               the chief in deciding whether to grant the license; and

               (5)

               Be sworn to be true and correct by the applicant.

               (b)

               If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an individual, he
               must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate
               a sexually oriented business is other than an individual, each individual who has
               a 20 percent or greater interest in the business must sign the application for a license
               as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under section 9-49 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.

               (c)

               All applications for a license under this article shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
               application fee of $500.00. An application shall not be considered to have been filed
               until the fee is paid and all information required by the application form has been
               submitted.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-49.,Same—Issuance,"(a)

               The chief of police shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant within
               30 days after filing of an application unless the chief of police finds one or more
               of the following to be true:

               (1)

               The location of the sexually oriented business is or will be in violation of section 9-45 and no exemption has been granted under section 9-69.

               (2)

               The applicant failed to supply all of the information requested on the application.

               (3)

               The applicant gave false, fraudulent, or untruthful information on the application.

               (4)

               An applicant is under 18 years of age.

               (5)

               An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in payment to the city of taxes,
               fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant or the applicant's
               spouse in relation to a sexually oriented business.

               (6)

               An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a violation of a provision
               of this article, other than the offense of operating a sexually oriented business
               without a license, within two years immediately preceding the application. The fact
               that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the denial of a license.

               (7)

               The application or renewal fee required by this article has not been paid.

               (8)

               The applicant has not demonstrated that the owner of the sexually oriented business
               owns or holds a lease for the property or the applicable portion thereof within which
               the sexually oriented business will be situated or has a legally enforceable right
               to acquire the same.

               (9)

               An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is not in compliance
               with section 9-51 or 9-56.

               (10)

               An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a crime:

               a.

               Involving:

               1.

               Any of the following offenses as described in V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 43:

               i.

               Prostitution;

               ii.

               Promotion of prostitution;

               iii.

               Aggravated promotion of prostitution;

               iv.

               Compelling prostitution;

               v.

               Obscenity;

               vi.

               Sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;

               vii.

               Sexual performance by a child;

               viii.

               Possession of child pornography;

               2.

               Any of the following offenses as described in V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 21:

               i.

               Public lewdness;

               ii.

               Indecent exposure;

               iii.

               Indecency with a child;

               3.

               Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 22;

               4.

               Incest (prohibited sexual conduct), enticing a child, or harboring a runaway child
               as described in V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 25;

               5.

               Possession or distribution of a controlled substance; or

               6.

               Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses;
               and

               b.

               For which:

               1.

               Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction, or the date of release
               from the terms of probation, parole, or deferred adjudication, or the date of release
               from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction
               is of a misdemeanor offense;

               2.

               Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction, or the date of release
               from the terms of probation, parole, or deferred adjudication, or the date of release
               from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction
               is of a felony offense; or

               3.

               Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last conviction or the date
               of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is the later date,
               if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor
               offenses occurring within any two-year period.

               (11)

               For an existing business, the business is in violation of any other applicable requirement
               of this article.

               (b)

               The fact that a conviction of the applicant or applicant's spouse is being appealed
               shall have no effect on the disqualification.

               (c)

               The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person or persons
               to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the sexually oriented
               business.

               (d)

               The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the
               sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-51.,Inspection and maintenance of records.,"(a)

               An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department, health
               department, fire department, and building inspections division to inspect the premises
               of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the law,
               at any time during the 30-day application period or after it is occupied or open for
               business. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel which
               are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or temporary habitation.

               (b)

               A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or employee commits
               an offense if he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by a representative
               of the police department, health department, fire department, or building inspections
               division at any time during the 30-day application period or after it is occupied
               or open for business.

               (c)

               A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or employee commits
               an offense if he operates the establishment without maintaining a current list of
               all employees employed by the business, along with a complete updated employment application.
               Each employment application shall include a copy of a valid driver's license, state
               identification card, or passport, all with a photo.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-52.,Expiration of license.,"(a)

               Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance.

               (b)

               A license may be renewed by submission to the chief of police of an application on
               the form prescribed by the chief of police and payment of a nonrefundable renewal
               processing fee of $500.00.

               (c)

               Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date
               of the license. If application is made less than 30 days before the expiration date
               and the new license is granted after the expiration of the previous license, the new
               license shall still expire in one year from the previous expiration date.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 14-23.,Offensive odors.,"Any unreasonably noxious, unpleasant, or strong odor which causes material distress,
               discomfort, or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity
               thereof is declared to be a nuisance and as such is liable to be abated and the person
               guilty of causing such odor shall, upon conviction, be punished, as provided in this
               Code.

               (Code 2008, § 93.52)"
Secs. 14-24—14-49.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,ENFORCEMENT,NULL
Sec. 9-53.,Suspension.,"(a)

               The chief of police shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if
               he determines that a licensee or an employee or spouse of a licensee:

               (1)

               Has violated or is not in compliance with section 9-51;

               (2)

               Is in a state of public intoxication while on the sexually oriented business premises;

               (3)

               Knowingly permits gambling by any person on the sexually oriented business premises;
               or

               (4)

               Is delinquent in payment to the city for taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
               against or imposed on the licensee or the licensee's employee or spouse in relation
               to a sexually oriented business.

               (b)

               When the chief of police is authorized to suspend a license under this section, he
               shall give the licensee the opportunity to pay a reinstatement fee of $200.00 rather
               than have the license suspended. In addition to and included as a part of the reinstatement
               fee, a licensee whose license is suspended for a violation of subsection (a)(4) must
               pay all delinquent taxes, fees, fines, or penalties before the license will be reinstated.

               (1)

               Payment of this reinstatement fee shall be considered an administrative admission
               of the violation. However, this shall not be used as an admission of guilt in a criminal
               prosecution under this article.

               (2)

               If the licensee does not pay the reinstatement fee before the expiration of the third
               working day after notification, he loses the opportunity to pay it and the chief of
               police shall impose the suspension.

               (3)

               Each day in which a violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
               cause for suspension.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
ARTICLE VII.,FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Flammable liquids, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 753; municipal authority to
               regulate flammable liquids, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 753.006."
Sec. 16-189.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the meanings
               ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
               meaning:

               Flammable liquid shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 202 of the Uniform Fire Code.

               (Code 2008, § 92.100)"
Sec. 18-6.,Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard.,"The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency
               in the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood hazard boundary map (FHBM), Community
               Number, 480397, dated December 4, 2012, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted
               by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 151.11; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 9-54.,Revocation.,"(a)

               The chief of police shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section 9-42 occurs and the license has been suspended or a reinstatement fee paid within the
               preceding 12 months.

               (b)

               The chief of police shall revoke a license if he determines that:

               (1)

               One or more statements contained in section 9-49(a) is true;

               (2)

               The licensee violated or is not in compliance with section 9-45 or 9-46;

               (3)

               The licensee or an employee of the licensee knowingly allowed possession, use, or
               sale of a controlled substance on the sexually oriented business premises;

               (4)

               The licensee or an employee of the licensee knowingly allowed prostitution on the
               sexually oriented business premises;

               (5)

               The licensee or an employee of the licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
               business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;

               (6)

               On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, an employee of the licensee committed
               in or on the sexually oriented business premises an offense listed in section 9-49(a)(10) for which a conviction or a deferred adjudication or other form of probation
               has been obtained; or

               (7)

               The licensee or an employee of the licensee knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
               sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur in or on the sexually
               oriented business premises. The term ""sexual contact"" shall have the same meaning
               as it is defined in V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 21.01.

               (c)

               The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation
               of the license.

               (d)

                Section 9-54(b)(7) does not apply to adult motels as a ground for revoking the license unless
               the licensee or employee knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy,
               oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within
               public view.

               (e)

               When the chief of police revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
               year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license for
               one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation,
               the chief of police finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or
               abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since
               the date the revocation became effective. If the license was revoked under subsection
               (b)(1) for an offense listed in section 9-49(a)(10) for which the time period required has not elapsed, an applicant may not be
               granted another license until the appropriate number of years required under section 9-49(a)(10) has elapsed.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-55.,Appeal.,"(a)

               If the chief of police is authorized to deny the issuance of a license, or suspend
               or revoke a license as provided in this article, the chief of police shall give written
               notice to the applicant or licensee of such intention and the basis for the denial,
               suspension, or revocation.

               (1)

               The notice of intent shall provide that the denial of issuance, or the suspension
               or revocation shall be effective at the expiration of the third working day after
               the chief of police gave the notification, unless the applicant or licensee provides
               a written response to the chief of police before the expiration of the third working
               day.

               (2)

               If the chief of police receives a timely written response from the applicant or licensee,
               the denial of issuance, or the suspension or revocation will be stayed pending a final
               decision by the chief of police.

               (b)

               The chief of police may request from the applicant or licensee any additional information
               necessary to finally decide whether to deny, suspend, or revoke a license.

               (c)

               After reviewing the written response from and any additional information submitted
               by the applicant or licensee, the chief of police shall render a final written decision.
               The chief of police shall deliver this final decision to the applicant or licensee
               by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address provided
               on the application.

               (d)

               The final decision by the chief of police shall be final and effective immediately.

               (e)

               Upon receipt of written notice of denial, suspension, or revocation, the applicant
               or licensee shall have the right to appeal to district court. If the chief of police
               denies, suspends, or revokes the license because the location of the sexually oriented
               business is or would be in violation of the locational requirements of section 9-45, the applicant may request an exemption from the location appeal board pursuant to section 9-69.

               (f)

               The appeal to district court must be filed within 30 days after:

               (1)

               The applicant or licensee receives notice of the chief of police's decision; or

               (2)

               The location appeal board denies the exemption.

               (g)

               The licensee or applicant shall bear the burden of proof in court.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-56.,Transfer.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he transfers his license to another person or operates
               a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any place other than
               the address designated in the application.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if he counterfeits, forges, changes, defaces, or alters
               a license.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-57.,Additional regulations—Adult cabarets.,"(a)

               An employee of an adult cabaret while appearing in a state of nudity or simulated
               nudity commits an offense if he touches a customer or the clothing of a customer.

               (b)

               A customer at an adult cabaret commits an offense if he touches an employee appearing
               in a state of nudity or simulated nudity.

               (c)

               Each adult cabaret shall have a manager's station, which shall not exceed 32 square
               feet of floor area. A licensee or employee of an adult cabaret commits an offense
               if he permits any customer access to an area of the premises not visible from the
               manager's station or not visible by a walk-through of the premises without entering
               a closed area, excluding restrooms. The view required in this subsection shall be
               by direct line of sight. The view shall be deemed insufficient if clear visibility
               of such line of sight must be attained by using flashlights or spotlights in addition
               to overhead house lighting.

               (d)

               No employee of an adult cabaret may appear in an area of the business visible to patrons
               or customers unless the employee completely and opaquely covers his or her genitals,
               public region, and public hair; anus; and, if female, her areolae. In addition, the
               employee is subject to the requirements of section 9-58.

               (e)

               No licensee, owner, operator, or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit an employee
               to violate subsection (d).

               (f)

               A licensee, operator or employee commits an offense if the licensee, operator or employee
               appears in a state of nudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity
               in an area of the adult cabaret which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.

               (g)

               A licensee shall designate and appoint one or more managers to manage, direct, and
               control the premises and operations of an adult cabaret. At least one manager shall
               be on the premises at any time the adult cabaret is open for business.

               (h)

               A licensee or manager commits an offense if the adult cabaret fails to display the
               floor markings as required in section 9-58(d).

               (i)

               An operator or a manager appointed under this section shall at all times have the
               duty to ensure that each employee in the adult cabaret has been instructed to commit
               no act which would constitute a violation of this article or which would provide grounds,
               or part of the grounds, for suspension or revocation of a license issued under this
               article.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 18-10.,Interpretation.,"In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:

                  (1)

                  Considered as minimum requirements;

                  (2)

                  Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

                  (3)

                  Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.

               (Code 2008, § 151.15; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 9-58.,Additional regulations—Public nudity.,"(a)

               A licensee, operator, or employee commits an offense if the licensee, operator, or
               employee appears in a state of nudity or knowingly allows another person to appear
               in a state of nudity in a sexually oriented business, unless the person is an employee
               who, while in a state of nudity, is on a stage (on which no patron or customer is
               present) that is at least 18 inches above the floor, and that is at least six feet
               from any patron or customer.

               (b)

               It is an offense for an employee, while in a state of nudity in a sexually oriented
               business, to receive directly any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer, or
               for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity directly to any employee, while
               that employee is in a state of nudity in a sexually oriented business. Such gratuity
               or pay may be provided to such an employee through a tip receptacle, located more
               than six feet from the nearest point of the performance stage where the employee is
               in a state of nudity, or may be paid to an employee that is not in a state of nudity,
               as part of the customer's bill.

               (c)

               A licensee or operator commits an offense if the licensee or operator fails to display
               a sign on the interior of the sexually oriented business premises notifying patrons
               and customers and employees of the prohibitions described in this section. The sign
               must be prominently and continuously displayed where patrons or customers enter the
               premises, and immediately adjacent to each performance stage, and must state in letters
               at least two inches high:

               TOUCHING OR TIPPING AN EMPLOYEE WHO IS IN A STATE OF NUDITY IS A CRIME (MISDEMEANOR)
               PUNISHABLE BY A FINE OF UP TO $2,000.00. PATRONS SHALL REMAIN AT LEAST SIX FEET FROM
               ALL PERFORMANCE STAGES.

               The chief of police may also require, at the time of issuance or renewal of the license,
               the licensee to display the sign in a language other than English if he determines
               that a substantial portion of the expected patrons or customers speak the other language
               as their familiar language. Upon notification, a licensee commits an offense if the
               sign does not contain this language in the required language, in addition to English.

               (d)

               A licensee or operator commits an offense if the licensee or operator fails to prominently
               and continuously display a glow-in-the-dark line on the floor of the sexually oriented
               business, at least two inches wide, marking a distance of six feet from each performance
               stage on which an employee in a state of nudity may appear in accordance with subsection
               (a).

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-59.,Prohibition of nudity in certain commercial establishments.,"(a)

               Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit certain acts of commercial exploitation
               of human sexuality in commercial establishments where alcoholic beverages are served
               or offered for sale for consumption on the premises, or permitted to be consumed on
               the premises, and to reduce the likelihood of criminal activity, moral degradation
               and disturbances of the peace and good order of the community, to prohibit lewd and
               unlawful activity, such as prostitution and the proliferation of controlled substances,
               all of which may occur when such commercial exploitation is permitted in such places,
               and to promote the preservation of property values of neighborhoods and adjacent properties.

               (b)

               Prohibition.

               (1)

               No person shall appear in a state of nudity or simulated nudity in any commercial
               establishment at which alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption
               on the premises, or permitted to be consumed on the premises.

               (2)

               No licensee, owner, operator, or manager of any commercial establishment at which
               alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the premises,
               or are permitted to be consumed on the premises, shall permit any person to appear
               in a state of nudity.

               (c)

               Nonconforming uses. Any business that was legally operating on the effective date of adoption or amendment
               of this article shall be deemed a nonconforming use as to the prohibition established
               in this section and shall be subject to the provisions of article VI of chapter 42.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-60.,Same—Escort agencies.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he employs at an escort agency any person under the
               age of 18 years.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if he acts as an escort or agrees to act as an escort
               for any person under the age of 18 years.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 20-22.,Appointment of police officers; oath of office.,"(a)

               All police officers shall be appointed and/or terminated by the city manager.

               (b)

               All police officers appointed to the police department shall take and subscribe to
               the official oath prescribed by the Constitution of the state.

               (Code 2008, § 32.02; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000; Ord. No. 2007-25, 8-20-2007)"
Sec. 9-61.,Same—Nude model businesses.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he employs at a nude model business any person under
               the age of 18 years.

               (b)

               A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he appears in a state of
               nudity or simulated nudity in or on the premises of a nude model business. It is a
               defense to prosecution under this subsection if the person was in a restroom not open
               to public view or persons of the opposite sex.

               (c)

               A person commits an offense if he appears in a state of nudity or simulated nudity,
               or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity or simulated nudity, in
               an area of a nude model business premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.

               (d)

               A person commits an offense if he places or permits a bed, sofa, or mattress in any
               room on the premises of a nude model business except that a sofa may be placed in
               a reception room open to the public.

               (e)

               A licensee or employee of a nude model business commits an offense if he permits any
               customer access to an area of the premises not visible from the manager's station
               or not visible by a walk through of the premises without entering a closed area, excluding
               restrooms.

               (f)

               An employee of a nude model business, while appearing in a state of nudity or simulated
               nudity, commits an offense if he touches a customer or the clothing of a customer.

               (g)

               A customer at a nude model business commits an offense if he touches an employee appearing
               in a state of nudity or simulated nudity.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-62.,Same—Adult theaters and adult motion picture theaters.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he knowingly allows a person under the age of 18 years
               to appear in a state of nudity or simulated nudity in or on the premises of an adult
               theater or adult motion picture theater.

               (b)

               A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he knowingly appears in a
               state of nudity or simulated nudity in or on the premises of an adult theater or adult
               motion picture theater.

               (c)

               It is a defense to prosecution under subsections (a) and (b) if the person under 18
               years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons of the opposite sex.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Secs. 14-178—14-207.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,JUNKED VEHICLES,"Footnotes:  --- (9) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Junked vehicles as public nuisances, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.071 et seq."
Sec. 9-63.,Same—Adult motels.,"(a)

               Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment
               has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time that is less than
               ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the establishment is an adult motel
               as that term is defined in this article.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping room in a hotel,
               motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have a sexually oriented
               business license, he rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person and, within ten
               hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or subrents the same sleeping room
               again.

               (c)

               For purposes of subsection (b), above, the terms ""rent"" and ""subrent"" mean the act
               of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-64.,Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos.,"A sexually oriented business other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises
               in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette,
               or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified
               anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:

                  (1)

                  Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the application shall be
                  accompanied by a diagram of the premises as required by section 9-48(a)(1). The diagram shall show the location of the manager's stations. A manager's
                  station shall not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.

                  (2)

                  No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station may be made
                  without the prior approval of the chief of police or his designee.

                  (3)

                  The licensee commits an offense if he permits a manager's station to be unattended
                  by a designated manager at any time a customer is present on the premises.

                  (4)

                  The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
                  unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the premises to which
                  any customer is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms. Restrooms may
                  not contain video reproduction equipment. If the premises has two or more manager's
                  stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such
                  a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which
                  any customer is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least
                  one of the manager's stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct
                  line of sight from the manager's station. The view shall be deemed insufficient if
                  clear visibility of such line of sight must be attained by using flashlights or spotlights
                  in addition to overhead house lighting.

                  (5)

                  The licensee or manager commits an offense if he permits access to a customer of any
                  area of the premises that is not visible from the manager's station for any purpose,
                  excluding restrooms.

                  (6)

                  The owners, operator, and any agents and employees present on the premises shall ensure
                  that the view area specified in subsection (5), remains unobstructed by any doors,
                  walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times that any customer
                  is present in the premises and to ensure that no customer is permitted access to any
                  area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which customers will
                  not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (1).

                  (7)

                  No viewing rooms or booths of less than 150 square feet of floor space shall be occupied
                  by more than one person at any time.

                  (8)

                  No licensee or manager shall allow openings or holes of any kind to exist between
                  adjacent or adjoining viewing rooms or booths.

                  (9)

                  No person shall make or attempt to make an opening or hole of any kind between adjacent
                  or adjoining viewing rooms and booths.

                  (10)

                  The licensee and any manager shall have a duty, during each business day, regularly
                  to inspect the walls of all viewing rooms or booths to determine if any openings or
                  holes exist.

                  (11)

                  The licensee or any manager commits an offense if he permits any patron or customer
                  access to a viewing room or booth where any opening or hole exists into an adjacent
                  or adjoining viewing room or booth.

                  (12)

                  This section shall not prohibit conduits for plumbing, heating, air conditioning,
                  ventilation or electrical service, if the conduits are screened or otherwise configured
                  so as to prevent their use as openings that would permit any portion of a human body
                  to penetrate the wall or barrier separating viewing rooms or booths.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-67.,Violation a misdemeanor.,"(a)

               Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a
               misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,000.00 for
               each offense affecting zoning, fire safety or public health and sanitation, and $500.00
               for all other offenses. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
               a separate offense.

               (b)

               It is the city's intention to dispense with any mental element from the definition
               of any prohibited act, offense, or misdemeanor in this article for which the punishment
               is by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or whenever in this article the doing of any act
               is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful and the punishment
               is by a fine not exceeding $500.00. No culpable mental state will be required to prove
               such a violation of this article.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Chapter 22,MUNICIPAL COURT,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Municipal courts, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 29; municipal courts of record, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 30; court procedures, Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch. 45."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 9-65.,Additional regulations for sexually oriented businesses.,"(a)

               Public and employee restrooms in a sexually oriented business shall not, at any time,
               contain or be used for sexually oriented business activity, video reproduction equipment,
               or sexually oriented merchandise.

               (b)

               An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video store, adult novelty store, adult service
               establishment, adult cabaret, adult theater, adult motion picture theater, nude model
               business, sex parlor, and sexual encounter center shall at all times maintain at least
               one legible sign posted in a conspicuous place at each public entrance easily visible
               by all persons prior to entry into the establishment with lettering of at least one-inch
               in height in English and Spanish which contains the following statement:

               THIS IS A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT WHICH REGULARLY FEATURES [description
               of the type of activity licensed to be conducted]. IF NUDITY OR ACTIVITY OF A SEXUAL
               NATURE OFFENDS YOU DO NOT ENTER. NO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE ALLOWED ENTRY
               [or ""NO PERSON UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE ALLOWED ENTRY,"" if alcohol is served].

               (c)

               The premises of any sexually oriented business shall be equipped with overhead lighting
               fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
               permitted access at an illumination of not less than 20 footcandles.

               (d)

               During hours of darkness when a sexually oriented business is in operation, all required
               parking and all outdoor areas to which pedestrians have access on the premises of
               the sexually oriented business shall be lighted to an intensity of not less than five
               footcandles measured at ground level.

               (e)

               No models, mannequins, pictures, drawings, sketches, or other live or simulated, pictorial
               or graphic displays of nudity or simulated nudity shall be allowed in a manner that
               is visible to the public from any street, sidewalk, or other public place.

               (f)

               The licensee commits an offense if he violates subsection (c), (d), or (e).

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-66.,Employee permits.,"(a)

               Permit required.

               (1)

               It shall be unlawful for any person who does not hold a permit to act as a manager
               or employee of a sexually oriented business.

               (2)

               It shall be the duty of the licensee, operator and owners of each sexually oriented
               business to ensure that no person acts as a manager or employee of a sexually oriented
               business unless that person holds a permit.

               (b)

               Issuance of permits.

               (1)

               Any person who desires to obtain an original or renewal permit shall make application
               in person at the offices of the police department between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
               12:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, city observed holidays excepted. The application
               shall be made under oath upon a form prescribed by the chief of police and shall include:

               a.

               The name, home street address and mailing address (if different) of the applicant;

               b.

               Proof of the date of birth of the applicant and the identity of the applicant, including
               at least one photographic identity card issued by a governmental agency;

               c.

               A list of any criminal charges pending, convictions, and time of service in jail or
               prison as related to any applicable offense that is specified in section 9-49(a)(10); and

               d.

               One passport-type photograph of the applicant of a size specified by the chief of
               police, which shall become part of the photographic identity card if a permit is issued.
               If an on-site card is required under subsection (4)(b), then the application must
               contain a second photograph of the same type.

               (2)

               Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable processing fee of $60.00.
               Each applicant shall be required to provide fingerprints to be used to verify the
               applicant's identity and criminal history information. Each applicant shall sign a
               waiver and authorization form authorizing the chief of police to request on behalf
               of the applicant criminal history reports from the state department of public safety
               and any appropriate federal agency.

               (3)

               The chief of police shall issue the permit within ten days from the date of filing
               of the application unless he finds that the application is incomplete or that the
               applicant has been convicted of or spent time in jail or prison for an offense specified
               in the applicable provisions of section 9-49(a)(10) within the time specified therein. If the application is not granted, then
               the applicant shall be given written notice of the grounds and of his right to provide
               a written response as provided by section 9-55(a), within ten days from the date of filing of the application.

               (4)

               Each permit issued by the chief of police shall consist of either one or two photographic
               identification cards.

               a.

               Each employee of a sexually oriented business shall have an identification card, called
               a personal card.

               b.

               If a sexually oriented business is required by sections 9-57(g) or 9-64(3) to have an on-site manager, then each employee of such a business shall have a
               second identification card, called an on-site card.

               (5)

               If the chief of police fails to issue or deny a permit application within the time
               specified in subsection (b)(3), then the applicant shall, upon written request, be
               immediately issued a temporary permit which shall be valid until the third day after
               the applicant is given notice of the decision of the chief of police.

               (6)

               If any personal card or on-site card is lost or stolen, the holder thereof shall immediately
               notify the chief of police and request a replacement, which shall be issued for a
               fee of $35.00 within three days following verification of the identity of the holder.

               (7)

               No permit application shall be accepted nor shall a permit be issued to any person
               who does not provide proof that he is at least 18 years old. Any permit issued by
               virtue of any misrepresentation or error to any person under age 18 shall be void.

               (c)

               Term, transfer, amendment.

               (1)

               A permit is valid for two years from the date of its issuance.

               (2)

               A permit is personal to the named permit holder and is not valid for use by any other
               person.

               (3)

               Each permit holder shall notify the police department of his new address within ten
               days following any change of his address.

               (d)

               Display.

               (1)

               Each manager or employee shall conspicuously display his personal card upon his person
               at all times while acting as a manager or employee of a sexually oriented business.

               (2)

               Each manager or employee who is required under this article to have an on-site card
               shall provide his on-site card to the manager or on-site manager in charge of the
               sexually oriented business to hold while the manager or employee is on the premises.

               (3)

               In any prosecution under subsection (a), it shall be presumed that the actor did not
               have a permit unless the permit was in display as required under subsection (d)(1).

               (e)

               Revocation. In the event that the chief of police has reasonable grounds to believe that any
               permit holder has been convicted of or spent time in jail or prison for an offense
               as specified in the applicable provision of section 9-49(a)(10) within the time specified therein, then the chief of police may revoke the
               permit under the procedures set out in section 9-55.

               (f)

               Appeals. If the chief of police is authorized to deny the issuance of a permit, or revoke
               a permit as provided in this section, the applicant or permittee may appeal the decision
               of the chief of police in accordance with the procedures in section 9-55.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 14-127.,Duty to maintain private property.,"No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any premises shall maintain
               or keep any nuisance thereon nor shall any such person keep or maintain such premises
               in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the
               neighborhood in which such premises are located.

               (Code 2008, § 95.31)"
Sec. 9-68.,Defenses.,"It is a defense to prosecution under sections 9-45, 9-47, 9-58 and 9-61 that a person appearing in a state of nudity or simulated nudity did so in a modeling
               class operated:

                  (1)

                  By a proprietary school licensed by the state; a college, junior college, or university
                  supported entirely or partly by taxation;

                  (2)

                  By a private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs
                  in which credits are transferrable to a college, junior college, or university supported
                  entirely or partly by taxation; or

                  (3)

                  In a structure:

                  a.

                  Which has no sign or other advertising visible from the exterior of the structure
                  indicating a nude or simulated nude person is available for viewing;

                  b.

                  Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at least three days
                  in advance of the class; and

                  c.

                  Where no more than one nude or simulated nude model is on the premises at any one
                  time.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-69.,License appeal board; exemptions from location restrictions.,"(a)

               The zoning board of adjustment shall serve as a location appeal board, and shall have
               the power to rule on the appropriate disposition of applications for exemptions from
               the location restrictions for sexually oriented businesses set forth in section 9-45. The location appeal board shall follow the rules and procedures set forth in this
               section.

               (b)

               If the chief of police denies the issuance of a license to an applicant because the
               location of the sexually oriented business is in violation of section 9-45, then the applicant may, not later than ten calendar days after receiving notice
               of the denial, file with the city secretary a written request for an exemption from
               the location restrictions.

               (c)

               If the written request is filed with the city secretary within the 10-day limit, a
               location appeal board shall consider the request. The city secretary shall set a date
               for the hearing within 60 days from the date the written request is received.

               (d)

               A hearing by the board may proceed only if five of the board members or alternates
               are present. The board shall hear and consider evidence offered by any interested
               person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.

               (e)

               The location appeal board may grant an exemption from the location restrictions of section 9-45 if it makes the following findings:

               (1)

               That the location of the sexually oriented business will not have a detrimental effect
               on nearby properties or be contrary to the public safety or welfare;

               (2)

               That the location of the sexually oriented business will not downgrade the property
               values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or encourage the development of urban
               blight;

               (3)

               That the location of the sexually oriented business in the area will not be contrary
               to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will it interfere with any efforts
               of urban renewal or restoration; and

               (4)

               That all other applicable provisions of this article will be observed.

               (f)

               In making the findings specified in subsection (e), the board shall take into account,
               among other things:

               (1)

               Crime statistics of the location and its 800-foot radius, without regard to city boundaries,
               maintained by the appropriate law enforcement agency for the previous six-month period;

               (2)

               Johnson County Appraisal District appraisals for the location and its 1,000-foot radius,
               without regard to city boundaries, taking into account any decline or increase in
               property values;

               (3)

               Vacancy rates of residential, commercial, or office space within the surrounding 1,000-foot
               radius, without regard to city boundaries; and

               (4)

               Any evidence regarding the award or denial of any public or private grants for neighborhood
               conservation, urban renewal, or restoration for any property located within a 1,000-foot
               radius, without regard to city boundaries.

               (g)

               The board shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote. Failure to reach a
               majority vote approving the exemption shall result in denial of the exemption. Disputes
               of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence. The decision
               of the license appeal board is final.

               (h)

               If the board grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for one year from the date
               of the board's action. Upon the expiration of an exemption, the sexually oriented
               business is in violation of the locational restrictions of section 9-45 until the applicant applies for and receives another exemption.

               (i)

               If the board denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply for an exemption
               until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the board's action.

               (j)

               The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any provisions of this
               article other than the locational restrictions.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Sec. 9-70.,Amendment of this article.,"Sections 9-45 and 9-46 may be amended only after compliance with procedures required to amend a zoning ordinance.
               All other sections of this article may be amended by an ordinance approved by the
               city council.

               (Ord. No. 2011-041, § 1, 10-17-2011)"
Secs. 9-71—9-79.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 1, adopted June 16, 2014,
                  
               repealed art. IV, §§ 9-80—9-89, in its entirety; and § 2 enacted a new art. IV to
               read as set out herein. Former art. IV pertained to similar subject matter and was
               derived from
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-0012, § 1, adopted May 19, 2014
                  
               ."
Sec. 26-83.,Unauthorized vehicles.,"(a)

               No person shall leave a vehicle, including trailers, unattended in a park without
               written permission from the public works department.

               (b)

               For purposes of this section, the term ""unattended vehicle"" means a vehicle, including
               a trailer, parked on park property when the driver or owner of the vehicle is not
               a user of the park property or present in the park at all times that his vehicle is
               located on park property.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(2.04), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 9-80.,Adoption of Texas food establishment rules.,"(a)

               The city adopts by reference the provisions of the current rules or rules as amended
               by the executive commissioner of the health and human services commission found in
               25 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 228 regarding the regulation of food establishments
               in this jurisdiction.

               (b)

               Definitions. The words and terms used in this article that are not defined herein
               shall have the meanings commonly ascribed to them. Words used in the present tense
               include the future tense. Words in the singular number include the plural number and
               words in the plural number include the singular number. The word he shall be defined
               to include the word she.

               Authorized agent or employee means the employees of the regulatory authority.

               City means the City of Alvarado, Texas.

               Food establishment means:

                  (1)

                  A food service establishment, a retail food store, a temporary food establishment,
                  a mobile food unit, and/or a roadside food vendor;

                  (2)

                  An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
                  food for human consumption, such as a restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location,
                  catering operation, if the operation provides food directly or indirectly to people
                  for consumption;

                  (3)

                  A market, vending location, conveyance used to transport people, institution, or food
                  bank;

                  (4)

                  The transportation vehicle or central preparation facility that supplies a vending
                  location or satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted
                  by the regulatory authority; and

                  (5)

                  An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary, temporary or permanent facility
                  or location where the consumption of food takes place on or off premises, regardless
                  of whether there is a charge for the food.

               Regulatory authority means the City of Alvarado, Texas.

               State rules means the state rules found at 25 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 228. These rules
               are also known as the ""Texas Food Establishment Rules.""

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               ;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-005, § 1, 3-20-2017
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-81.,Permits and exemptions.,"A person may not operate a food establishment without a permit issued by the regulatory
               authority. Permits are not transferrable from one person or entity to another or from
               one location to another location, except as otherwise permitted by this article. A
               valid permit must be visibly posted in or on every food establishment regulated by
               this article.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-83.,Review of plans.,"(a)

               Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled and whenever
               an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment, properly prepared
               plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or conversion shall be
               submitted to the regulatory authority for review before work is begun. Extensive remodeling
               means that 20 percent or greater of the area of the food establishment is to be remodeled
               or when equipment required by the rules is to be relocated or removed. The plans and
               specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, equipment arrangement, mechanical
               plans and construction of materials of work areas, and the type and model of proposed
               fixed equipment and facilities. The plans and specifications will be approved by the
               regulatory authority if they meet the requirements of the rules adopted by this article.
               The approved plans and specifications must be followed in construction, remodeling
               or conversion.

               (b)

               Failure to follow the approved plans and specifications will result in a permit denial,
               suspension, or revocation.

               (c)

               Fees for the review of plans shall be issued by the regulatory authority.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-84.,Inspections.,"(a)

               Before a permit is issued, the city or its authorized representative shall inspect
               and approve the food establishment. An inspection of a food establishment shall be
               performed at least two times annually and shall be prioritized based upon assessment
               of a food establishment's compliance and potential of causing food-borne illness according
               to Texas Administrative Code [tit.] 25., § 229.171(h).

               (b)

               Refusal of an owner, manager or employee to allow the authorized representative of
               the regulatory authority, upon presentation of credentials, to inspect any permitted
               business or operation therein during normal business hours will result in an immediate
               suspension of the permit, requiring all permitted activities to abate until after
               such time as a hearing may be held per section 9-86(b).

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 14-153.,Loud noises—Prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued
               any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise or any noise which interferes with the normal
               enjoyment of life or property or disturbs, endangers, or interferes with the public
               peace and comfort within the limits of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 95.50)"
Sec. 9-85.,Food manager/food handler education.,"(a)

               Requirements.

               (1)

               Each food service establishment shall have at least one person employed in a managerial
               capacity possessing a current food manager certificate approved by the regulatory
               authority.

               (2)

               Each food service establishment with six or more employees that is required to have
               certified food managers must have at least one certified manager on site during all
               operations.

               (3)

               Every employee of a food service establishment other than a certified food manager
               must maintain a valid food handler certification.

               (4)

               Food handler certification shall be valid for a period of up to two years as determined
               by the regulatory authority.

               (5)

               Food Manager and Food Handler certification documentation must be maintained in the
               food service establishment and presented upon request by the regulatory authority.

               (b)

               Exceptions. Food manager certificates will not be required for the following:

               (1)

               Food service establishments providing only beverages, popcorn, prepackaged foods or
               commercially prepared candy or nuts;

               (2)

               Nonprofit organizations except those operating schools, day cares, nursing homes,
               halfway houses or boarding homes; or

               (3)

               Temporary or special event food service establishments.

               For the purposes of this section, a nonprofit organization shall mean an organization
               which has been granted an exemption or is exempt from the payment of federal income
               taxes.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-86.,[Suspension of permit.],"(a)

               The regulatory authority may, without warning, notice, or hearing suspend any permit
               to operate a food establishment if the operation of the food establishment constitutes
               an imminent hazard to public health. Suspension is effective upon service of the notice
               required by subsection (b). When a permit is suspended, food operations shall immediately
               cease. Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit shall be afforded
               an opportunity for a hearing within ten days of receipt of a request for a hearing.

               (b)

               Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit or the person in charge shall
               be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the notice, immediately
               suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request
               for a hearing is filed with the regulatory authority by the holder of the permit within
               ten days. If no written request for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension
               is sustained. The regulatory authority may end the suspension at any time if reasons
               for suspension no longer exists.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-87.,Revocation of permit.,"(a)

               The regulatory authority may, after providing opportunity for a hearing, revoke a
               permit for serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of these rules
               or for interference with the regulatory authority in the performance of its duties.
               Prior to revocation, the regulatory authority shall notify the holder of the permit
               or the person in charge, in writing, of the reason for which the permit is subject
               to revocation and that the permit shall be revoked at the end of the ten days following
               service of such notice unless a written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory
               authority by the holder of the permit within such ten day period.

               (b)

               If no request for hearing is filed within the ten day period, the revocation of the
               permit becomes final.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-88.,Administrative process.,"(a)

               A notice as required in these rules is properly served when it is delivered to the
               holder of the permit or the person in charge, or when it is sent by registered or
               certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the holder
               of the permit as shown on their permit application. A copy of the notice shall be
               filed in the records of the regulatory authority.

               (b)

               The hearings provided for in these rules shall be conducted by the regulatory authority
               at a time and place designated by it. Based upon the recorded evidence of such hearing,
               the regulatory authority shall make final findings, and shall sustain, modify or rescind
               any notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision
               shall be furnished to the holder of the permit by the regulatory authority.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 9-89.,Remedies.,"(a)

               Any person who violates a provision of these rules and any person who is the permit
               holder of or otherwise operates a food service establishment that does not comply
               with the requirements of these rules and any responsible officer of that permit holder
               or those persons shall be fined not more than $2,000.00. Each day that a violation
               is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.

               (b)

               The regulatory authority may seek to enjoin violations of these rules.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-015, § 2, 6-16-2014
                  
               )"
Chapter 10,CEMETERIES,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Municipal authority to regulate cemeteries and burial of dead, V.T.C.A., Health and
               Safety Code §§ 694.003, 713.001 et seq.; disposition of the body, V.T.C.A., Health
               and Safety Code ch. 691 et seq.; cemeteries and crematories, V.T.C.A., Health and
               Safety Code ch. 711 et seq."
Sec. 10-3.,Burial outside authorized cemeteries.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of any deceased person anywhere
               within the city other than in a cemetery duly authorized and recognized as a public
               burying ground under the terms of this chapter, except by special permission granted
               by the health officer of the city and confirmed by the city council. If the body of
               any deceased person is buried anywhere within the city except in a legally authorized
               cemetery or burying ground without such permission, then the health officer may require
               the person so burying such body to disinter such body and bury the same in a duly
               authorized cemetery or burying ground.

               (Code 2008, § 93.72)"
Sec. 10-4.,Disinterment of certain bodies buried on private ground.,"If the body of any deceased person is found buried on any lot or ground in the city,
               the owner or agent of which lot or ground cannot be found, it shall be lawful and
               is hereby made the duty of the health officer to cause said body to be disinterred
               and buried in a cemetery established by this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 93.73)"
Sec. 10-5.,New cemeteries; application.,"(a)

               Any person wishing to establish or enlarge a cemetery, mausoleum, or other facility
               for the burial, interment, or other final disposition of the remains of dead persons
               shall make application to the city council to establish or enlarge such facility.

               (b)

               Any person making such application shall provide the following information:

               (1)

               A survey of all real property to be included in such facility.

               (2)

               A plat of all burial lots or structures included on such real property.

               (3)

               Proof of ownership of all real property so included.

               (4)

               Proof of compliance with all statutory requirements relating to cemeteries and perpetual
               care trusts or funds.

               (5)

               A bond sufficient to hold the city and all adjacent property owners harmless from
               any activities for the burial of any human remains on the property of another.

               (c)

               Upon the presentation of the application, the city council shall hold a hearing on
               said application and shall, if no objection is filed, grant a permit to operate a
               facility for the final disposition of human remains as set forth in the application.
               If objections are filed, the application shall be treated as an application for a
               zoning variance.

               (Code 2008, § 93.74)"
Chapter 12,EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Texas Disaster Act of 1975, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 418; local and interjurisdictional
               emergency management, V.T.C.A., Government Code § 418.101 et seq."
Sec. 12-1.,Critical incident and emergency management program.,"(a)

               The mayor of the city is authorized to join with the county judge of the county and
               the mayors of other cities in said county in the formation of an emergency management
               council the county and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of
               a joint critical incident and emergency management plan for the county and in the
               appointment of a joint emergency management director for the county, as well as all
               other powers necessary to participate in a countywide program of critical incident
               and emergency management insofar as said program may affect the city.

               (b)

               The city hereby joins with other municipalities of the county, volunteer organizations,
               and the commissioner's court of the county to form the county emergency management
               council to establish a program for comprehensive emergency management and relief by
               and through designated officers, agents, and employees.

               (c)

               The mayor of the city, the representatives of other county municipalities, and the
               county judge, acting as the emergency management council, shall appoint by mutual
               consent an emergency management coordinator for the county to coordinate all aspects
               of the emergency management, civil defense, and disaster relief program, including
               preparation and maintenance of a joint critical incident and emergency management
               plan for the city and the county, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

               (d)

               Nothing in this section is intended to relieve any person of any condition, restriction,
               or requirement imposed by any other law or ordinance of the city. Where any other
               law, ordinance, or regulation is in conflict with this section, this section shall
               govern.

               (Code 2008, § 35.01; Ord. No. 86-3, 6-23-1986)"
Sec. 20-72.,Status as peace officers.,"Reserve officers of the reserve unit shall serve as peace officers during the actual
               discharge of official duties subject at all times to the direction, control, and supervisory
               authority of the chief of police. A reserve officer shall be deemed to be actually
               discharging his official duties only while on active status pursuant to section 20-64.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-73.,Carrying of weapons.,"(a)

               No person appointed to the reserve unit may carry a weapon or otherwise act as a peace
               officer until:

               (1)

               The person has satisfactorily completed the reserve officer's basic training course
               in an academy certified by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards
               and Education; and

               (2)

               The person has been approved by the city council.

               (b)

               After meeting the conditions in subsection (a) above, the reserve officer may carry
               a weapon only when:

               (1)

               Authorized by the chief of police; and

               (2)

               When discharging official duties as a duly constituted peace officer.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 12-2.,Critical incident and emergency management committee—Created.,"The critical incident and emergency management committee of the city is hereby created,
               which shall include the following:

                  (1)

                  There is hereby created the position of emergency management coordinator of the city.
                  The mayor shall recommend to the city council one or more willing candidates for the
                  office of emergency management coordinator. The city council, by majority vote, shall
                  then appoint the position of emergency management coordinator for the city. The emergency
                  management coordinator shall serve without compensation and at the will of the city
                  council.

                  (2)

                  The assistant coordinator of the city who shall be charged with the preparation of
                  an critical incident and emergency management plan for the city, together with such
                  other duties as the coordinator may prescribe. The assistant coordinator shall be
                  the city manager of the city. The assistant coordinator shall serve as vice-chairman
                  of the critical incident and emergency management committee.

                  (3)

                  The department heads and any other employees appointed by the assistant coordinator.

                  (4)

                  Representatives not to exceed 25 in number from civic, business, industry, labor, veterans, professional, or other
                  groups, to be selected and appointed by the mayor.

               (Code 2008, § 35.02; Ord. No. 2000-028, 6-12-2000; Ord. No. 2005-020, 9-26-2006)"
Sec. 12-3.,Same—Powers and duties.,"The powers and duties of the critical incident and emergency management committee
               shall include the recommendation for adoption by the city council of a critical incident
               and emergency management plan for the city, and the recommendation for adoption by
               the city council of any and all mutual aid plans and agreements which are deemed essential
               for the implementation of such critical incident and emergency management plan. The
               duties of such critical incident and emergency management committee shall also include
               making an inventory of the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
               and services which could be used during an emergency as well as a continuing study
               of the need for amendments and improvements to the critical incident and emergency
               management plan adopted by the city council. The critical incident and emergency management
               committee of the city shall meet upon the call of either the chairman or vice-chairman.

               (Code 2008, § 35.03)"
Secs. 14-143—14-152.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,NOISE,"Footnotes:  --- (7) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Presumption of unlawful noise, V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 42.01(c)."
Sec. 12-4.,Powers and duties of coordinator.,"(a)

               The mayor or his designee shall have the authority to declare the existence of a disaster
               without delay. The coordinator may do so, if the city council is not in session, but
               such action shall be subject to confirmation by the city council at its next meeting.

               (b)

               The duties and responsibilities of the emergency management coordinator shall include
               the following:

               (1)

               The control and direction of the actual operation or training efforts of the critical
               incident and emergency management organization of the city;

               (2)

               The determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that may arise
               within the critical incident and emergency management organization of the city;

               (3)

               The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, district, state, county,
               regional, federal, or other critical incident and emergency management organizations;

               (4)

               The marshaling, after declaration of an emergency as provided for above, of all necessary
               personnel, equipment, or supplies from any department of the city to aid in the carrying
               out of the critical incident and emergency management plan;

               (5)

               The issuance of all necessary proclamations as to the existence of an emergency and
               the immediate operational effectiveness of the critical incident and emergency management
               plan;

               (6)

               The issuance of reasonable rules, regulations, or directives which are necessary for
               the protection of life and property in the city, such rules and regulations to be
               filed in the office of the city secretary;

               (7)

               The supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in cooperation
               with the representatives of the state and other local political subdivisions of the
               state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable, of an agreement with the
               county in which said city is located and with other municipalities within the county
               for the county-wide coordination of efforts in critical incident, disaster relief,
               and emergency management;

               (8)

               The supervision of and final authorization for the procurement of all necessary supplies
               and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions;

               (9)

               The authorizing of agreements, after approval of the city attorney, for the use of
               private property for air raid shelter and other purposes.

               (Code 2008, § 35.04)"
Sec. 14-20.,Public health nuisances specified.,"The following are specifically declared to constitute public nuisances and are prohibited
               within the city limits and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction:

                  (1)

                  Bakeries, restaurants, food markets, and other places where food is prepared, kept
                  for sale, or served and not kept in a clean, sanitary condition, or in which persons
                  who do not have valid health certificates or who have any communicable disease are
                  employed, or in connection with which suitable sanitary toilet facilities are not
                  provided, or in which there is evidence of insects, flies, rats, mice, or vermin and
                  with food which is accessible to their contamination;

                  (2)

                  Spoiled or diseased meats or other foods, whether stored or offered for sale or being
                  transported for purpose of sale;

                  (3)

                  Barns, stables, hog pens, chicken yards, cow lots, manure piles, or any accumulations
                  of organic materials of whatever kind, so maintained as to be breeding places of insects,
                  flies, or mosquitoes or convenient harborage for rats and mice;

                  (4)

                  The discharge or exposure of sewage, human excreta, wastewater, garbage, or other
                  organic filth into or on any place in such a manner that transmission of disease from
                  the infected material may result, or the placing or maintaining of such materials
                  as tin cans or rubbish of any sort that might constitute a breeding place for mosquitoes
                  or flies or offer a hiding place or protection for rodents;

                  (5)

                  Privies not protected against flies or privies and cesspools the drainage from which
                  is likely to pollute the soil, surface water, or water supply from which water for
                  public or private consumption is obtained;

                  (6)

                  All cellars, vaults, drains, pools, privies, sewers, yards, grounds, or premises which
                  have for any cause become foul, nauseous, or not provided with adequate means of ingress
                  or egress or not sufficiently supported, ventilated, sewered, drained, cleaned, or
                  lighted;

                  (7)

                  The transportation of garbage, human excreta, or other organic waste, except in tight
                  covered wagons or containers which prevent leakage or access to flies;

                  (8)

                  Stagnant water on private or public premises likely to afford breeding places for
                  mosquitoes;

                  (9)

                  Hide houses, bone boiling, or rendering establishments, tallow soap work, or other
                  trades deleteriously affecting public health;

                  (10)

                  All carcasses, all decaying flesh, fish, fowls, fruit, or vegetables, all deposits
                  of manure, all flesh of any kind or description whatever, all filthy or offensive
                  water or slops in any private yard or premises, and all other unwholesome substances
                  when thrown upon or conducted into or upon any street, alley, public ground, or enclosure
                  in such manner as to render such substances unwholesome and offensive or liable to
                  become unwholesome or offensive;

                  (11)

                  The act of sweeping or depositing any trash, paper, or rubbish into any street, alley,
                  public thoroughfare, or other public place while driving, walking, or by any other
                  means;

                  (12)

                  The act of burning any substance of any kind which may cause or produce an offensive
                  smell, smoke, or odor capable of annoying persons living in the vicinity or persons
                  passing along the streets, alleys, or public thoroughfares;

                  (13)

                  The act by any person of permitting or allowing any weeds, filth, or rubbish of any
                  kind to remain on any sidewalk in front of or at the side of any premises owned by
                  such person or in the street to the middle thereof, in front or at the side of any
                  premises owned or controlled by such person, or upon any alley that may be at the
                  rear or side of any lots owned or controlled by such person;

                  (14)

                  The act of scattering or distributing any advertisements, circulars, handbills, printed
                  or written announcements, or paper of like character, or any medicines, upon the streets,
                  sidewalks, alleys, or within the public buildings or grounds within the city;

                  (15)

                  The act of conducting or causing to be conducted into any alley or gutter, drain,
                  or public ground, except such articles as are permitted by ordinance, in such manner
                  as to obstruct such passageway;

                  (16)

                  Buildings, barns, sheds, filling stations, construction camps, junk shops, camp houses,
                  or any part thereof, which are in such a dilapidated or filthy condition as to harbor
                  vermin or endanger the life or health of persons living in the vicinity or the public
                  generally;

                  (17)

                  Displaying of food in the open air, unless in proper cases constructed so as to protect
                  such food from insects, flies, dust, filth, dogs, rodents, and insects;

                  (18)

                  Every trade, business, or occupation injurious to the health or comfort of persons
                  who reside in the vicinity, and any can or receptacle containing water or slops suffered
                  to become stagnant or offensive or unwholesome from any cause;

                  (19)

                  The act of conducting any business or enterprise upon any premises or within any building
                  which through negligence allows paper, paper cups, or any other debris to escape from
                  such premises or building and litter any sidewalk, alley, street, or other public
                  place or private property;

                  (20)

                  Allowing weeds, grass, or other uncultivated plants to attain a height greater than
                  12 inches on any lot or tract within the city, including along the sidewalk or street
                  adjacent to the property between the property line and the curb, or if there is no
                  curb then between the property line and the driving surface of the adjacent street;

                  (21)

                  Allowing junk, trash, debris, rubbish, brush, or any other unsightly, objectionable,
                  or unsanitary matter to grow or accumulate on any lot within the city, including along
                  the sidewalk or street adjacent to the property between the property line and the
                  curb, or if there is no curb then between the property line and the driving surface
                  of the adjacent street; and

                  (22)

                  Allowing trees or tree limbs to grow along the sidewalk or street adjacent to any
                  lot or tract within the city between the property line and the curb, or if there is
                  no curb between then between the property line and the driving surface of the adjacent
                  street, if any portion of the tree or tree limbs are growing at a height less than
                  14 feet above the pavement of the roadway or seven feet above the pavement of the
                  sidewalk, or if any portion of the tree or tree limbs are growing in a manner that
                  interferes with or causes an obstruction to motorists using the roadway or pedestrians
                  using the sidewalk.

               (Code 2008, § 93.51; Ord. No. 2013-016, § 1, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 12-5.,Operational critical incident and emergency management organization.,"The operational critical incident and emergency management organization of the city
               shall consist of the officers and employees of the city designated by the emergency
               management coordinator as well as all volunteer workers. The functions and duties
               of this organization shall be distributed among such divisions, services and special
               staff as the city council shall prescribe by resolution or the emergency management
               coordinator shall provide by directive. Any such resolution or directive shall set
               forth the form of organization, establish and designate divisions and services, assign
               functions, duties and powers, and designate officers and employees to carry out the
               provisions of this chapter. Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles,
               and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the state emergency management
               council and of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

               (Code 2008, § 35.05)"
Sec. 12-6.,Oath.,"Each person serving as a member of the critical incident and emergency management
               committee, or as an officer, employee, or volunteer in any capacity in the critical
               incident and emergency management organization shall, prior to assuming his duties,
               take an oath which shall be substantially as follows:

                  ""I, ___________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the
                  Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Texas, against
                  all enemies, foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
                  same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose
                  of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I
                  am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor
                  am I a member or an affiliate of any political party or organization, group, or combination
                  of persons that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or
                  of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am a member of
                  the critical incident and emergency management committee of the City of Alvarado,
                  I will not advocate nor become a member or an affiliate of any organization, group,
                  or combination of persons or of any political party that advocates the overthrow of
                  the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence.""

               (Code 2008, § 35.06)"
Sec. 26-84.,Special provisions applicable to bicycles.,"The director or city manager may, in his reasonable discretion, through park rules
               and regulations, set aside or designate areas, parks, trials, or roads in a park where
               operating bicycles shall not be allowed.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(2.05), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-85—26-111.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 12-7.,Liability for damages and injuries.,"These regulations are an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for the
               protection of the public peace, health, and safety and neither the city, the agents
               and representatives of said city, nor any individual, receiver, firm, partnership,
               corporation, association, or trustee, or any of the agents thereof, in good faith
               carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply with any order, rule, or regulation
               promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any damage
               sustained to persons as the result of said activity. Any person owning or controlling
               real estate or other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the
               city a license or privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate,
               and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or premises for the purpose
               of sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or practice enemy attack shall,
               together with his successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death
               of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under such license,
               privilege, or other permission or for loss of or damage to the property of such person.

               (Code 2008, § 35.07)"
Sec. 12-8.,Expending public funds on activities.,"No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in carrying
               out any critical incident and emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
               without prior approval by the city council nor shall any person have any right to
               bind the city by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and specific approval
               of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 35.08)"
Sec. 12-9.,False sirens unlawful.,"Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so as to simulate
               any critical incident or disaster signal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
               this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties imposed by this Code.

               (Code 2008, § 35.10)"
Sec. 12-10.,Conflicts with these rules and regulations.,"(a)

               At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated pursuant
               to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing ordinances,
               orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be inconsistent with this
               chapter.

               (b)

               These regulations shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or federal
               statute or with any military order, rule, or regulation.

               (Code 2008, § 35.11)"
Sec. 12-11.,Interfering with public officer; violating rules and regulations; impersonating public officer.,"It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder, or delay any member
               of the critical incident and emergency management organization in the enforcement
               of any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or to do any act forbidden
               by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained in this chapter.
               It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or display any emblem,
               insignia, or any other means of identification as a member of the critical incident
               and emergency management organization of the city, unless authority to do so has been
               granted to such person by the proper officials.

               (Code 2008, § 35.12)"
Chapter 14,ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Sanitation and environmental quality, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 341 et
               seq.; natural resources, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code ch. 1 et seq.; parks and wildlife, V.T.C.A., Parks and Wildlife Code ch. 1 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Secs. 14-1—14-18.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,NUISANCES,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority of City to define, abate, and remove nuisances and punish persons responsible
               for nuisances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 217.002; authority of municipalities
               to enforce laws necessary to protect the public health, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety
               Code ch. 121 and § 122.005; for authority to adopt regulations necessary for interest,
               welfare and good order of the municipality, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 51.012;
               municipal authority to regulate weeds and other unsanitary matter, V.T.C.A., Health
               and Safety Code § 342.004."
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 14-19.,Nuisances described.,"Whatever is dangerous to human life or health, or whatever renders the ground, the
               water, the air, or food a hazard or injury to human life or health or that is offensive
               to the senses or that is, or threatens to become, detrimental to the public health
               is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and, as such, liable to be abated. The person
               guilty of causing, permitting, or suffering a nuisance to exist upon any premises
               or upon any building occupied or controlled by him or in any street, alley, sidewalk,
               or gutter immediately adjacent to such premises shall, upon conviction, be punished
               as provided in this Code.

               (Code 2008, § 93.50)"
Sec. 14-21.,Accumulations of water prohibited.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause, or permit within the city any
               collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or are likely to
               breed, unless such collection of water is treated so as to effectually prevent such
               breeding.

               (b)

               Any collection of water considered in subsection (a) of this section shall be held
               to be those contained in ditches, pools, ponds, excavations, holes, depressions, open
               cesspools, privy vaults, fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs
               (except livestock troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets,
               defective house roof gutters, automobile tires, tanks, or flush closets, or other
               similar water containers.

               (c)

               The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall be deemed
               sufficient evidence to assume that mosquitoes are breeding there and failure to prevent
               such breeding within three days after due notice has been given by the health officer
               shall constitute a violation of this section.

               (d)

               The methods of treatment of collections of water directed toward the prevention of
               breeding of mosquitoes shall be approved by the health officer and shall be one or
               more of the following:

               (1)

               Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way or with any
               other material which will prevent the ingress or egress of mosquitoes;

               (2)

               Complete emptying every seven days of unscreened containers, together with their thorough
               drying or cleaning;

               (3)

               Using a larvacide approved by and applied under the direction of the health officer
               of the city;

               (4)

               Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other obstructions
               and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish;

               (5)

               Filling or draining to the satisfaction of the health officer of the city or his authorized
               representative; and/or

               (6)

               Proper removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes, broken or empty bottles, and
               similar containers likely to hold water.

               (e)

               For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article, the health officer or
               his duly accredited agent acting under his authority may at all reasonable time enter
               in and upon any premises within his jurisdiction, and any person charged with any
               of his duties imposed by this article failing within the time designated by this article
               or within the time stated in the notice of the health officer, as the case may be,
               to perform such duties or to carry out the necessary measures to the satisfaction
               of the health officer, shall be deemed guilty of violation of this section.

               (Code 2008, § 93.10)

            State Law reference— 
               Municipal authority to fill, drain, and regulate any place containing stagnant water
               or any other condition that may produce disease, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code
               § 342.001."
Sec. 14-50.,Work or improvements by city; notice.,"(a)

               If the owner of property in the city does not comply with this chapter within seven
               days of notice of a violation, the city may:

               (1)

               Do the work or make the improvements required; and

               (2)

               Pay for the work done or improvements made and charge the expenses to the owner of
               the property.

               (b)

               The notice must be given:

               (1)

               Personally to the owner in writing;

               (2)

               By letter addressed to the owner at the owner's address as recorded in the appraisal
               district records of the appraisal district in which the property is located; or

               (3)

               If personal service cannot be obtained:

               a.

               By publication at least once;

               b.

               By posting the notice on or near the front door of each building on the property to
               which the violation relates; or

               c.

               By posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the ground on the
               property to which the violation relates.

               (c)

               If the city mails a notice to a property owner in accordance with subsection (b) of
               this section, and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as refused or
               unclaimed, the validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is considered
               as delivered.

               (d)

               In a notice provided under this section, the city may inform the owner by regular
               mail and a posting on the property, or by personally delivering the notice, that if
               the owner commits another violation of the same kind or nature that poses a danger
               to the public health and safety on or before the first anniversary of the date of
               the notice, the city without further notice may correct the violation at the owner's
               expense and assess the expense against the property. If a violation covered by a notice
               under this subsection occurs within the one-year period, and the city has not been
               informed in writing by the owner of an ownership change, then the city without notice
               may take any action permitted by subsections (a)(1) and (2) of this section and assess
               its expenses as provided by section 14-51.

               (Code 2008, §§ 93.53, 95.15, 95.16, 95.32, 95.33; Ord. No. 2000-040, 8-21-2000)"
Sec. 14-79.,Sweeping litter into street or gutter prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street,
               or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building
               or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
               property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free from litter.

               (Code 2008, § 95.13)"
Sec. 14-51.,Assessment of expenses; lien.,"(a)

               The city council may assess expenses incurred under section 14-50 against the real estate on which the work is done or improvements made.

               (b)

               To obtain a lien against the property, the mayor or his designee must file a statement
               of expenses with the county clerk. The lien statement must state the name of the owner,
               if known, and the legal description of the property. The lien attaches upon the filing
               of the lien statement with the county clerk.

               (c)

               The lien obtained by the city council is security for the expenditures made and interest
               accruing at the rate of ten percent on the amount due from the date of payment by
               the city.

               (d)

               The lien is inferior only to:

               (1)

               Tax liens; and

               (2)

               Liens for street improvements.

               (e)

               The city council may bring a suit for foreclosure in the name of the city to recover
               the expenditures and interest due.

               (f)

               The statement of expenses or a certified copy of the statement is prima facie proof
               of the expenses incurred by the city in doing the work or making the improvements.

               (g)

               The remedy provided by this section is in addition to the remedy provided by section 1-12.

               (h)

               The city council may foreclose a lien on property under this article in a proceeding
               relating to the property brought under V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 33.91 et seq.

               (Code 2008, §§ 93.53, 95.01, 95.34; Ord. No. 2000-040, 8-21-2000; Ord. No. 2011-026,
               § 1, 8-15-2011)"
Secs. 14-52—14-75.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,LITTERING,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Texas Litter Abatement Act, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 365; authority to
               regulate rubbish, other unsanitary matter and unwholesome places, V.T.C.A., Health
               and Safety Code ch. 342."
Sec. 14-105.,Deemed public nuisance.,"The abandonment or dangerous exposure of an icebox, refrigerator, or freezer with
               its door in normal latching or locking condition is hereby declared to be a public
               nuisance and a serious menace to life because of the danger of persons, especially
               children, entering such an icebox, refrigerator, or freezer and becoming locked inside
               and suffocating.

               (Code 2008, § 95.21)"
Sec. 14-76.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Litter means:

                  (1)

                  Decayable waste from a public or private establishment, residence, or restaurant,
                  including animal and vegetable waste material from a market or storage facility handling
                  or storing produce or other food products, or the handling, preparation, cooking,
                  or consumption of food, but not including sewage, body wastes, or industrial byproducts;
                  or

                  (2)

                  Nondecayable solid waste, except ashes, that consists of:

                  a.

                  Combustible waste material, including paper, rags, cartons, wood, excelsior, furniture,
                  rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, or similar materials;

                  b.

                  Noncombustible waste material, including glass, crockery, tin or aluminum cans, metal
                  furniture, and similar materials that do not burn at ordinary incinerator temperatures
                  of 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit or less; and

                  c.

                  Discarded or worn-out manufactured materials and machinery, including motor vehicles
                  and parts of motor vehicles, tires, aircraft, farm implements, building or construction
                  materials, appliances, and scrap metal.

               Littering means dumping, throwing, placing, depositing, leaving, or causing to be dumped, thrown,
               placed, deposited, or left any refuse or waste of any kind or any object or substance
               which tends to pollute, mar, or deface any public street, highway, alley, road, right-of-way,
               park, or other public place and private property.

               Private property means all property not owned by a governmental entity including vacant land or any
               land, building, or structure, together with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence,
               porch steps, or other appurtenant structure.

               (Code 2008, § 95.10)"
Sec. 14-77.,Littering prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter on any private or public
               property within this city, whether owned by such person or not, except in authorized
               trash receptacles for the collection of litter and in such manner that the litter
               may be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
               sidewalk, or other private or public property within the city.

               (Code 2008, § 95.11)"
Sec. 14-78.,Placing litter in receptacles to prevent scattering.,"Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private receptacles
               shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
               elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property.

               (Code 2008, § 95.12)"
Sec. 14-81.,Owner to remove litter upon notice.,"It shall be the duty of any owner or occupant of property within the city to remove
               or cause to be removed all such litter as may be necessary to comply with these provisions
               hereof. Whenever any such condition as described in sections 14-105 and 14-106 is found to exist on a lot or premises within the city, the owner or occupant shall
               be notified in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to correct, remedy,
               or remove the condition within ten days after such notice is given. Such notice shall
               either be served personally or by registered mail with a return receipt requested
               to the last known address of the owner.

               (Code 2008, § 95.15)"
Sec. 14-82.,City may abate nuisance; provision for lien.,"If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises upon which any condition described
               in sections 14-77 through 14-80 is not corrected, remedied, or removed within ten days after notice to do so is given,
               the city may do such work at the expense of the city on the account of owners of said
               premises and charge the expenses incurred to the owner of such lot upon which such
               expenses are incurred. The doing of such work by the city shall not relieve the owner
               or occupant of said lot or premises from prosecution for failure to comply with such
               notice for violation of sections 14-77 through 14-80.

               (Code 2008, § 95.16)"
Secs. 14-83—14-103.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,REFRIGERATORS AND FREEZERS,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Unlawful to abandon or keep refrigerators or other airtight container which can be
               latched and is accessible to children, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 756.011
               et seq."
Sec. 14-104.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Abandon means the throwing away of an icebox, refrigerator, or freezer on vacant property,
               junk heaps, trash piles, or debris accumulations or any other act which at common
               law would constitute an abandonment of personal property.

               Dangerous exposure means the placing of an icebox, refrigerator, or freezer not in use in a garage,
               barn, outbuilding, porch, yard, lot, or other portion of premises where persons may
               come upon it and be attracted to it.

               (Code 2008, § 95.20)"
Sec. 14-106.,"Owner to remove latches, locks.","(a)

               The owner of an abandoned or dangerously exposed icebox, refrigerator, or freezer
               and the owner or occupant of the premises where an abandonment or dangerous exposure
               occurs shall remove the door or dismantle or remove the latch or lock holding the
               door shut on the icebox, refrigerator, or freezer.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if he abandons or dangerously exposes, or causes or permits
               to be abandoned or dangerously exposed, an icebox, refrigerator, or freezer unless
               the latch or lock holding each door shut is dismantled or removed so that the door
               may be opened from within by pushing on it.

               (Code 2008, § 95.22)"
Secs. 14-107—14-125.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 5.,NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Regulation and abatement of sanitation nuisances, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code
               ch. 342."
Sec. 14-126.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Nuisance on private property means any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is detrimental
               to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution
               in the value of other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
               This includes but is not limited to the keeping, the depositing on, or the scattering
               over the premises of any of the following:

                  (1)

                  Lumber, building materials, junk, trash, or debris;

                  (2)

                  Storage of furniture (other than furniture designed for outside use), household items,
                  or products of a commercial trade or business enterprise, whether or not such items
                  are used outside;

                  (3)

                  Abandoned, discarded, or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles and equipment
                  parts, furniture, fixtures, appliances, cans, bottles, or containers;

                  (4)

                  Items of salvage such as scrap metals, rags, papers, bottles, cans, and similar items;

                  (5)

                  Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to spread or harbor disease, emit unpleasant
                  odors or harmful gas, or attract rodents, vermin, or other disease-carrying pests,
                  animals, or insects;

                  (6)

                  Any deleterious or septic material upon any premises, unless such material is retained
                  in containers or vessels which deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents, and
                  animals.

               (Code 2008, § 95.30)"
Sec. 14-128.,Graffiti on private property.,"(a)

               Graffiti is the unauthorized application of paint, ink, chalk, dye or a similar substance,
               or other inscribed or engraved material, on structures located on privately owned
               real property in the city.

               (b)

               Graffiti is declared to be a public nuisance and it shall be unlawful to maintain
               or allow graffiti to remain on structures located on privately owned real property
               in the city.

               (c)

               The provisions of sections 14-50 and 14-51 of the Code of Ordinances concerning notice to remove or abate a public nuisance,
               removal or abatement by the city of a public nuisance, and filing by the city of a
               lien on private property for the expenses of removal or abatement of a public nuisance,
               shall apply to the removal or abatement of graffiti.

               (Ord. No. 2008-030, § 1, 9-15-2008)"
DIVISION 6.,DONATION CONTAINERS,"Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2014-005, § 1, adopted February 17, 2014, set out provisions for use herein
               as art. II, div. 6, §§ 14-153 and 14-154. At the editor's discretion, to prevent duplication
               of numbers, those provisions have been included as §§ 14-141 and 14-142."
Sec. 14-141.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
               meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Donation container means any box, container, trailer or other receptacle that is intended for use as
               a collection point for donated clothing, other household items or personal property;
               the term does not include recycle bins or any container contained within a building.

               Person means any individual, business entity, association or partnership recognized under
               state law other than a governmental entity.

               Recycle bin means a receptacle used for the collection of recyclable materials and that is governed
               or regulated by state or local law.

               (Ord. No. 2014-005, § 1, 2-17-2014)"
Sec. 14-142.,Donation containers prohibited.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain, or allow to be placed or
               maintained, a donation container on property within the corporate limits of the city.

               (b)

               Any donation container located within the corporate limits of the city shall be subject
               to impoundment by the city. Any donation container impounded by the city shall be
               released to the owner upon the payment of an impoundment fee of $200.00 and a daily
               storage fee of $20.00 for each day the donation container remains in the possession
               of the city.

               (c)

               Any impounded donation container not claimed within 30 days of the date of impoundment
               may be destroyed or discarded without additional notice from the city.

               (Ord. No. 2014-005, § 1, 2-17-2014)"
Sec. 14-129.,Accumulation of tires.,"(a)

               Definition. In this section, tire means any motorcycle, automobile, truck, trailer, tractor,
               or other vehicle tire.

               (b)

               Roofed structure and screening required. Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing, or renting any premises where
               five or more new, used, or old tires, including any combination thereof, are stored
               or allowed to accumulate may keep the tires on the premises only if the following
               conditions are met:

               (1)

               Adequate visual screening of the tires from public rights-of-way shall be provided
               by fences or the use of natural objects such as trees or berms in such a manner that
               no portion of the tires is visible from any public right-of-way; and

               (2)

               The tires shall be kept under a roofed structure on the premises that is:

               a.

               Of sufficient capacity to contain the tires and keep them from being exposed to rain,
               irrigation, or any other source of water;

               b.

               Kept clean and free from the accumulation of any material or substance that might
               attract flies, rodents, or other insects or pests; and

               c.

               Kept locked or otherwise secured to prevent the tires from being removed from the
               structure without the express authorization of the person owning, managing, operating,
               leasing, or renting the premises.

               (c)

               Inspections, investigations, and enforcement. The city manager and his or her authorized agents or representatives, police officers,
               and code enforcement officers have the authority and responsibility to conduct inspections,
               investigations, and enforcement activities on all premises within the city to ensure
               compliance with this section.

               (d)

               Penalty.

               (1)

               A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a separate offense
               for each day or part of a day during which the violation is committed, continued,
               or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of not more than
               $2,000.00.

               (2)

               A culpable mental state is not required for the commission of an offense under this
               section.

               (3)

               Prosecution for an offense under paragraph (1) of this subsection does not prevent
               the use of other enforcement remedies or procedures applicable to the person charged
               with, or the conduct involved in, the offense.

               (Ord. No. 2011-015, § 1, 12-20-2010)

            Editor's note— 
               Ord. No. 2011-015, § 1, adopted Dec. 20, 2010, added § 14-128 to the Code. Inasmuch
               as said section already existed, the new provisions have been redesignated as § 14-129
               at the editor's discretion."
Secs. 14-130—14-140.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 14-154.,Same—Enumerated.,"The following enumerated acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary
               noises in violation of this article, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be
               exclusive:

                  (1)

                  Playing of radios, televisions, phonographs, etc., at loud volume. The playing of any radio, television, musical instrument, phonograph, stereo, or
                  other machine or device for the producing, reproducing, or amplification of sound
                  in such manner as to create a noise which could be reasonably considered to disturb
                  a person of ordinary disposition residing in the vicinity or at any time with louder
                  volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for persons who are in the room, vehicle,
                  chamber, or location in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
                  listeners thereto is hereby prohibited. The operation of such set, instrument, phonograph,
                  stereo, machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance
                  of 50 feet from the building, structure, vehicle, or location in which it is situated
                  shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.

                  (2)

                  Playing of phonographs, radios, etc., at loud volume on business premises. The playing or operating or permitting to be played or operated any phonograph, radio,
                  or loud-speaking or noise-making device or attachment on any premises under the ownership,
                  management, or control of such person, when such premises are being used as a place
                  of business to which the public generally is invited, in such a manner or in such
                  volume as to be reasonably calculated to disturb the peace or to be unreasonably offensive
                  to the public or to the occupants of other premises in the vicinity.

                  (3)

                  Sounding of horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile or other vehicle while
                  not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently
                  out of control; or, if in motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being
                  applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended.

                  (4)

                  Loud and excessive noise from motor vehicles. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of repair or operated
                  in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary spinning or squealing of tires, grating,
                  grinding, rattling, or other noise.

                  (5)

                  Running motors. The parking, storage or repairing of any motor vehicle or any motorized equipment
                  between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with any motor left in operation for
                  an extended period.

                  (6)

                  Sound amplifying equipment for advertising purposes. The use of sound amplifying equipment for commercial advertising purposes.

               (Code 2008, § 95.51)"
Secs. 14-155—14-176.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,JUNKED AND ABANDONED PROPERTY,"Footnotes:  --- (8) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Abandoned motor vehicles, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 683."
Sec. 14-208.,Presence of junked vehicles deemed public nuisance; exception.,"The location or presence of any junked motor vehicle or vehicles on any private or
               public property, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the city shall
               be deemed a public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain
               such public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering inoperable,
               abandoning, or discarding any motor vehicle on the real property of another or to
               suffer, permit, or allow the same to be placed, located, maintained, or exist upon
               his own real property. This section shall not apply to a vehicle or vehicle part:

                  (1)

                  That is completely enclosed in a building in a lawful manner and is not visible from
                  the street or other public or private property; or

                  (2)

                  That is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection with
                  the business of a licensed vehicle dealer or junkyard, or that is an antique or special
                  interest vehicle stored by a motor vehicle collector on the collector's property,
                  if the vehicle or part and the outdoor storage area, if any, are:

                  a.

                  Maintained in an orderly manner;

                  b.

                  Not a health hazard; and

                  c.

                  Screened from ordinary public view by appropriate means, including a fence, rapidly
                  growing trees, or shrubbery.

               (Code 2008, § 94.10)"
Sec. 14-209.,"Abatement order, private property.","(a)

               Whenever such public nuisance as described in section 14-208 exists within the city, the chief of police or other designated official enforcing
               this article shall order the owner of the premises, or the occupant of the premises
               if in possession thereof, to abate or remove the same. Such order shall:

               (1)

               Be in writing;

               (2)

               Specify the public nuisance and its location;

               (3)

               Specify the corrective measure required;

               (4)

               Provide for compliance within ten days from service thereof; and

               (5)

               Inform the owner or occupant of his right to a hearing before the municipal judge
               if notice of a demand for hearing is given in writing within ten days of the issuance
               of the order.

               (b)

               The order must be personally delivered, sent by certified mail with a five-day return
               requested, or delivered by the United States Postal Service with signature confirmation
               service to:

               (1)

               The last known registered owner of the nuisance;

               (2)

               Each lienholder of record of the nuisance; and

               (3)

               The owner or occupant of:

               a.

               The property on which the nuisance is located; or

               b.

               If the nuisance is located on a public right-of-way, the property adjacent to the
               right-of-way.

               (c)

               The notice must state that:

               (1)

               The nuisance must be abated and removed not later than the tenth day after the date
               on which the notice was personally delivered or mailed; and

               (2)

               Any request for a hearing must be made before that ten-day period expires.

               If the post office address of the last known registered owner of the nuisance is unknown,
               notice may be placed on the nuisance or, if the owner is located, personally delivered.
               If notice is returned undelivered, action to abate the nuisance shall be continued
               to a date not earlier than the 11th day after the date of the return.

               (d)

               If the owner or the occupant of the premises fails or refuses to comply with the notice
               stating the order of the chief of police or his duly authorized agent and fails to
               request a hearing within ten days after service thereof, the chief of police or his
               duly authorized agent shall take possession of said motor vehicle and remove it from
               the premises, and may issue a citation to the owner or occupant of the premises.

               (e)

               The chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall thereafter dispose of said
               junked motor vehicle in such a manner as the city council may provide.

               (f)

               A person who receives notice of said premises may, within said ten-day period after
               service of notice to abate the nuisance, request of the chief of police, either in
               person or writing and without the requirement of bond, that a date and time be set
               when he may appear before the municipal judge for a hearing to determine whether he
               is in violation of this division.

               (g)

               If a request is made under the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, no action
               to remove said vehicle shall be taken pending the hearing.

               (Code 2008, §§ 94.11, 94.12; Ord. No. 99-036, 5-24-1999)"
Sec. 34-131.,Underground utilities.,"All public or privately-owned underground utilities shall stub out all services from
               mains in all directions to the property lines in streets and in alleys where the services
               shall be stubbed out 18 inches inside the rear property line of platted lots and to
               the property line of unplatted property prior to commencing paving operations.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.6, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-132.,As-built plans.,"The developer or a qualified engineer shall present the city with a reproducible (sepia)
               and complete as-built set of plans and three sets of blue-line or black-line prints
               on paper of as-built plans for all paving, drainage, structures, water mains, and
               sewer mains within 60 days after completion of each contract.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.7, 4-26-1999)"
Secs. 34-133—34-161.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VI.,GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS,NULL
Sec. 14-210.,Public hearing.,"(a)

               Upon receipt of a request for a hearing made pursuant to section 14-209, the chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall set a date and time for such
               hearing, not earlier than the 11th day after the date of the service of notice, before
               the municipal judge. At the hearing, the junked motor vehicle is presumed, unless
               demonstrated otherwise by the owner, to be inoperable. If the information is available
               at the location of the nuisance, a resolution or order requiring removal of the nuisance
               must include the vehicle's:

               (1)

               Description;

               (2)

               Vehicle identification number; and

               (3)

               License plate number.

               (b)

               The municipal judge shall hear any case brought before it and as set out herein determine
               whether the subject vehicle is a junked vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
               The judge may summon any witnesses or solicit any information it deems necessary in
               determining the status of the vehicle.

               (c)

               If the judge determines that the subject vehicle is junked, under the provisions of
               this division, the owner of said vehicle or the owner or occupant of the premises,
               as the case may be, shall be ordered to remove or cause to be removed said vehicle
               from either public or private property within five days from the date of the order
               of the judge. Any resolution or order requiring the removal of a vehicle or part thereof
               shall include a description of the vehicle, the correct vehicle identification number,
               and license number of the vehicle, if available.

               (Code 2008, § 94.13; Ord. No. 99-036, 5-24-1999))"
Sec. 14-211.,Filing complaint.,"If the order of the municipal judge is not complied with, the city attorney shall
               forthwith cause to be prepared, filed, and served on the defendant a written complaint
               charging that the owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the premises, as
               the case may be, has violated the provisions of this division.

               (Code 2008, § 94.14)"
Sec. 20-65.,Established.,"The reserve police unit for the city police department, which shall be a volunteer
               force of reserve police officers, hereafter referred to in this article as the ""reserve
               unit,"" is hereby established.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-66.,Control.,"The reserve unit shall function under the general direction and control of the chief
               of police subject to the supervision of the city manager and also subject to such
               rules, regulations and orders as may be promulgated from time to time by the chief
               of police in accordance with the authority vested in the chief of police by the ordinances
               or resolutions of the city.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 14-212.,Trial.,"(a)

               The judge of the municipal court shall hear any case brought before said court and
               shall determine whether the defendant is in violation of this division. Upon finding
               that the defendant is in violation of this division, said defendant shall be found
               guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine as provided in this Code. Each day that
               the nuisance continues shall be considered a separate occurrence.

               (b)

               The judge of said court shall further order such offense removed and said nuisance
               abated within ten days, same being a reasonable time.

               (c)

               If the defendant shall fail and refuse to abate and remove said nuisance within ten
               days, the judge of said court may issue an order directing the chief of police or
               his duly authorized agent to have the same removed and the chief of police or his
               duly authorized agent shall take possession of said junked motor vehicle and remove
               it from the premises.

               (d)

               The chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall thereafter dispose of said
               junked motor vehicle in such manner as the city council may provide.

               (Code 2008, § 94.15)"
Sec. 14-213.,Removal of junked vehicle with permission.,"The owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the premises, as the case may
               be, if after receipt of ten day's notice from the chief of police or his duly authorized
               agent to abate the nuisance as herein provided, may give his written permission to
               the chief of police or his duly authorized agent for removal of the junked motor vehicle
               and the giving of such permission shall be considered in compliance with the terms
               and provisions of this division. Once a vehicle has been removed, it shall not be
               reconstructed or made operable.

               (Code 2008, § 94.16)"
Sec. 14-214.,Removal from unoccupied premises.,"If a junked vehicle as defined in section 14-177 is located on premises that are unoccupied and the owner of the premises is notified
               to remove same but cannot be found, then upon a showing of such facts to the judge
               of the municipal court, the court may issue an order directing the chief of police
               or his duly authorized agent to have the same removed, and the chief of police or
               his duly authorized agent shall take possession of said junked motor vehicle and remove
               it from the premises. The chief of police or his duly authorized agent shall thereafter
               dispose of said junked motor vehicle in such manner as the city council may provide.

               (Code 2008, § 94.17)"
Sec. 14-215.,Notice to state department of highways and public transportation required.,"When a junked motor vehicle is removed from any premises by the chief of police or
               his duly authorized agent, notice shall be given to the state department of highways
               and public transportation within five days after the date of removal of the junked
               vehicle or part thereof and identifying the junked vehicle or part thereof, and requesting
               that said department cancel the certificate of title to such vehicle pursuant to state
               law.

               (Code 2008, § 94.18)"
Secs. 14-216—14-238.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES AND OTHER PROPERTY,"Footnotes:  --- (10) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Abandoned motor vehicles, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 683."
Sec. 14-239.,Declaration of nuisance; duty to impound.,"When an abandoned motor vehicle or any property other than a junked motor vehicle,
               as defined in section 14-177, is placed, left standing, parked, erected, or lying in violation of any ordinance
               or code of the city or left unattended for more than 48 continuous hours in or on
               any public street, alley, sidewalk, park, or other public place of the city is declared
               to be a nuisance. Any such property when so found shall be removed summarily by any
               officer of the city and taken to the city pound and shall be kept there until redeemed
               or sold as herein provided.

               (Code 2008, § 94.30)"
Sec. 14-240.,Taking abandoned motor vehicle into custody; notice.,"(a)

               The police department shall send notice of abandonment to:

               (1)

               The last known registered owner of each motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor,
               or other property taken into custody by the agency or for which a report is received
               under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.031; and

               (2)

               Each lienholder recorded under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 501 for the motor
               vehicle or under V.T.C.A., Parks and Wildlife Code ch. 31, for the watercraft or outboard motor.

               (b)

               The notice under subsection (a) of this section must:

               (1)

               Be sent by certified mail not later than the tenth day after the date the police department:

               a.

               Takes the abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, or other property into
               custody; or

               b.

               Receives the report under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.031;

               (2)

               Specify the year, make, model, and identification number of the item;

               (3)

               Give the location of the facility where the item is being held;

               (4)

               Inform the owner and lienholder of the right to claim the item not later than the
               20th day after the date of the notice on payment of:

               a.

               Towing, preservation, and storage charges; or

               b.

               Garagekeeper's charges and fees under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.032 and,
               if the vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle impounded under V.T.C.A., Transportation
               Code § 644.153(q), the delinquent administrative penalty and costs; and

               (5)

               State that failure of the owner or lienholder to claim the item during the period
               specified by subsection (a)(4) of this section is:

               a.

               A waiver by that person of all right, title, and interest in the item; and

               b.

               Consent to the sale of the item at a public auction.

               (c)

               Notice by publication in one newspaper of general circulation is sufficient notice
               under this section if:

               (1)

               The identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined;

               (2)

               The registration has no address for the owner; or

               (3)

               The determination with reasonable certainty of the identity and address of all lienholders
               is impossible.

               (d)

               Notice by publication:

               (1)

               Must be published in the same period that is required by subsection (b) of this section
               for notice by certified mail and contain all of the information required by that subsection;
               and

               (2)

               May contain a list of more than one abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard
               motor, or other property.

               (e)

               The police department is not required to send a notice, as otherwise required by subsection
               (a) of this section, if the department has received notice from a vehicle storage
               facility that an application has or will be submitted to the department for the disposal
               of the vehicle.

               (f)

               In addition to the notice required under subsection (a) of this section, if the police
               department takes an abandoned motor vehicle into custody, the department shall notify
               a person that files a theft report or similar report prepared by any law enforcement
               agency for the vehicle of that fact. The notice must be sent by regular mail on the
               next business day after the police department takes the vehicle into custody. The
               police department shall also provide the name and address of the person that filed
               the theft report or similar report to the vehicle storage facility or governmental
               vehicle storage facility that is storing the vehicle.

               (Code 2008, §§ 94.31, 94.32)"
Sec. 14-241.,Storage fees.,"The police department is entitled to reasonable storage fees:

                  (1)

                  For not more than ten days, beginning on the day the item is taken into custody and
                  ending on the day the required notice is mailed; and

                  (2)

                  Beginning on the day after the day the agency mails notice and ending on the day accrued
                  charges are paid and the vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, or other property is
                  removed."
Sec. 14-242.,Auction or use of abandoned items; waiver of rights.,"(a)

               If an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, or other property is not
               claimed under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.012:

               (1)

               The owner or lienholder:

               a.

               Waives all rights and interests in the item; and

               b.

               Consents to the sale of the item by public auction or the transfer of the item, if
               a watercraft, as provided by subsection (d) of this section; and

               (2)

               The police department may sell the item at a public auction, transfer the item, if
               a watercraft, as provided by subsection (d) of this section, or use the item as provided
               by V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.016.

               (b)

               Proper notice of the auction shall be given. A garagekeeper who has a garagekeeper's
               lien shall be notified of the time and place of the auction.

               (c)

               The purchaser of a motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, or other property:

               (1)

               Takes title free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership;

               (2)

               Shall receive a sales receipt from the police department; and

               (3)

               Is entitled to register the motor vehicle, watercraft, or outboard motor and receive
               a certificate of title.

               (d)

               On consent of the state parks and wildlife department, the police department may transfer
               a watercraft that is not claimed under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.012 to
               the state parks and wildlife department for use as part of an artificial reef under
               V.T.C.A., Parks and Wildlife Code ch. 89, or for other use by the state parks and
               wildlife department permitted under the parks and wildlife code. On transfer of the
               watercraft, the state parks and wildlife department:

               (1)

               Takes title free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership; and

               (2)

               Is entitled to register the watercraft and receive a certificate of title.

               (Code 2008, § 94.33)"
Sec. 34-164.,Streets.,"(a)

               Conformity to major street plan. The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all streets shall
               conform to the city thoroughfare plan and the design standards and shall be considered
               in relation to existing and planned street or driveways, to topographical conditions,
               to public safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land
               to be served by such streets. Reserve strips of land controlling access to or egress
               from other property, or to or from any street or alley, of having the effect of restricting
               or damaging the adjoining property for subdivision purposes or which will not be taxable
               or accessible for special improvements shall not be permitted in any subdivision.

               (b)

               Streets not on thoroughfare plan. When such a street is not on the thoroughfare plan, the arrangement of streets in
               a subdivision shall:

               (1)

               Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of existing streets in surrounding
               areas;

               (2)

               Conform to a plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the city to meet a particular
               situation where topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformity to
               existing streets impracticable;

               (3)

               Provide for future access to adjacent vacant areas that will likely develop under
               a similar zoning classification; and

               (4)

               Not conflict in any way with existing or proposed driveway openings.

               (c)

               Through traffic discouraged on minor streets. Minor residential streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
               will be discouraged, but access is provided to adjacent subdivisions.

               (d)

               Through traffic. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, the
               city council may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage, deep lots with
               rear service alleys, or such treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection
               to residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.

               (e)

               Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited, except where control
               is definitely placed by the city under conditions approved by the city council. When
               provisional one-foot reserves are used along the side or end of streets that abut
               acreage tracts, the following note shall be used in all such dedications: One-foot
               reserve to become automatically dedicated for street purposes when adjacent property
               is subdivided in a recorded plat, and access to dedicated tract is hereby prohibited
               until such action occurs.

               (f)

               Street offsets. Intersecting streets with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be prohibited.

               (g)

               Large-lot subdivisions. If the lots or tracts of land in the proposed subdivision are large enough to accommodate
               resubdivision in the future or if part of the tract is not subdivided, consideration
               must be given to possible future street openings and access to future lots that could
               result from such resubdivision.

               (h)

               Street intersections. Arterial intersections shall be between 85-degree and 95-degree angles and each leg
               shall be tangent for a distance of at least 50 feet from the intersection. Other street
               intersections shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right
               angles, and no street shall intersect at less than 70 degrees.

               (i)

               Street widths. Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown on the thoroughfare plan and where not
               shown therein shall be not less than those shown in the design standards.

               (j)

               Half streets. Construction of half streets shall be prohibited, except when essential to the reasonable
               development of the subdivision in conforming with the other requirements of these
               regulations and the thoroughfare plan, and where the planning and zoning commission
               finds it will be practical to require the dedication of the other one-half when the
               adjoining property is subdivided. If the subdivider is responsible for one-half of
               the street, the subdivider shall escrow the amount of the construction cost of the
               facility unless the city participates in the construction of the facility. Whenever
               a partial street previously has been platted along a common property line, the other
               portion of the street shall be dedicated. Improvements shall be made to all on-site
               facilities as defined herein.

               (k)

               Cul-de-sacs. A cul-de-sac street shall not be longer than 600 feet and at the closed end shall
               have a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of at least 80 feet and a street
               property line diameter of at least 100 feet. The cul-de-sac shall be measured from
               the centerline of the intersecting street to the centerline of the cul-de-sac turnaround.

               (l)

               Dead-end streets. Dead-end streets are not allowed except to provide for access to adjacent land areas
               and in no case shall be more than 250 feet in length or equal to one lot depth, whichever
               is greater. A dead-end street may be up to 600 feet long if a temporary cul-de-sac
               is provided according to the above standard. The following note should be placed on
               the plat: ""Cross-hatched area is temporary easement for turnaround until street is
               extended (give direction) by future improvements."" Proper provision shall be made
               for drainage at the ends of dead-end streets. In the event an existing dead-end street
               is extended, the subdivider extending such street must, at his cost, remove the turnaround
               facilities, construct the extension to the standards contained herein and restore
               the affected area compatible with adjacent property.

               (m)

               Street names. New streets that are an extension of existing streets shall bear the names of the
               existing streets and shall be dedicated at equal or greater widths than the existing
               streets. No new street names shall be used that will duplicate or be confused with
               the names of existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the
               planning and zoning commission.

               (n)

               Street signs. The total cost of street signs shall be furnished to the city by the subdivider for
               all intersections within or abutting the subdivision. The cost of street signs will
               be established by resolution of the city council. Traffic signs shall be furnished
               in accordance with the latest state manual on uniform traffic control devices.

               (o)

               Streetlights. Streetlight locations and installations shall be coordinated by the subdivider with
               the power company and the city. It shall be the subdivider's responsibility to install
               streetlights with metal poles (or approved similar material) a maximum distance of
               600 feet apart, at intersections, and at the ends of culs-de-sac. The subdivider shall
               pay for the electricity used by the streetlights until building permits are issued
               for 80 percent of the lots after which time the city shall pay for the cost of electricity
               used.

               (p)

               Street construction conditions. All new streets dedicated within a subdivision shall be constructed in accordance
               with paving widths and specifications as set forth in the design standards for the
               city at the time at which the final plat is approved and adhere to the following conditions:

               (1)

               The subdivider shall employ a civil engineer, experienced in street design and duly
               licensed to practice in the state, for the preparation of the street plans and profiles.
               These plans shall be subject to the review and acceptance by the city. Construction
               shall explicitly follow these approved plats, unless specific written concurrence
               is obtained from the city engineer for deviations from said plans.

               (2)

               The subdivider shall employ a registered professional land surveyor or civil engineer
               to provide construction staking for the street facilities.

               (3)

               All streets shall be constructed by an eligible contractor employed by the subdivider.
               Eligibility shall be determined by the city based on work history. Eligibility requirements
               shall be equally applicable to all contractors. Ineligibility may be appealed to the
               city council.

               (4)

               The streets, including parkways, shall be excavated to the line and grade shown on
               the construction plans approved by the city.

               (5)

               Standard pavement widths and sections shall be constructed on a prepared subgrade
               in accordance with the design standards for the city.

               (6)

               Standard curb and gutter shall be constructed on both sides of the street and adjacent
               to medians, where applicable, including all curb returns, in accordance with the design
               standards for the city, and to the line and grade shown on the construction plans
               accepted by the city.

               (7)

               The city shall provide inspection services during the construction; however, such
               inspection shall be only for the purpose of ensuring that the city-approved plans
               and specifications are complied with and that the completed work is obtained therein
               described. The subdivider and his engineer shall retain responsibility for the design
               and for ensuring that construction is completed in accordance with the city-accepted
               plans and specifications.

               (q)

               Pavement widths. Pavement widths shall be 30 feet from face of curb to face of curb on residential
               streets with curbs. All streets shall be considered residential for width design purposes,
               unless one of the following conditions exists:

               (1)

               Designated as a collector, minor arterial, or principal arterial by the city's thoroughfare
               plan;

               (2)

               The street serves more than 30 dwelling units;

               (3)

               Adjacent to or serving commercial, multifamily, or industrial land use or in a residential
               subdivision where, in the opinion of the city's planner, additional street width is
               indicated for property access and circulation; and

               (4)

               Where, in the opinion of the city or in the opinion of the subdivider with the concurrence
               of the city, the aesthetic value achieved from extra width is dictated by special
               conditions (such as the entrance to a subdivision).

               In the case of subsection (q)(1) of this section, the subsection to be constructed
               shall be in accordance with the thoroughfare plan or a revision thereof based on updated
               conditions. In the case of subsection (q)(2) of this section, a collector street shall
               be the minimum street section used. In the case of subsections (q)(3) and (4) of this
               section, each condition shall be studied individually and approved by the city prior
               to approval of the subdivision in question.

               (r)

               Access and entrances. Subdivisions generally shall provide one point of access in each direction (north,
               east, south, and west) to adjacent property or to a roadway. All residential development
               shall provide no less than one entrance for each 50 lots including stubs for future
               development and in no case shall have more than 150 lots for each connection to an
               existing road.

               (s)

               Designated streets not to be private. Dedicated streets and rights-of-way shall not be designated or used as private streets
               and such use is prohibited.

               (t)

               Traffic studies may be required. Where traffic conditions require, traffic engineering studies may be required by
               the planning and zoning commission or the city council from the subdivider to provide
               technical data.

               (u)

               Alleys in commercial and industrial districts. Alleys shall be optional in commercial and industrial districts. Service alleys in
               commercial and industrial districts shall be a minimum right-of-way of 30 feet and
               pavement width of 20 feet.

               (v)

               Alleys in residential districts. Residential alleys shall not be required, except to connect to a subdivision with
               existing alleys for the purpose of providing continuity. If alleys are constructed
               or required, the following standards shall be met:

               (1)

               In residential districts, alleys shall be parallel, or approximately parallel, to
               the frontage of the street. Alleys in residential districts shall provide a minimum
               of 20 feet of right-of-way and 15 feet of pavement;

               (2)

               Alleys shall be paved in accordance with the design standards for the city at the
               time of subdivision construction;

               (3)

               Where the deflection of alley alignment occurs, the design of the paving and property
               line shall be as established by the design standards for the city.

               (4)

               Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable, shall be provided
               with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end as approved by the city.

               (5)

               Alleys may not exceed a maximum length of 800 feet unless otherwise approved by the
               planning and zoning commission and the city council.

               (6)

               No garbage or trash shall be deposited or collected in the alleyways.

               (w)

               Specifications for materials and workmanship. Specifications for materials and workmanship shall conform to the Standard Specifications
               for Public Works Construction, published by the North Central Texas Council of Governments.

               (x)

               Streets in ETJ. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, all streets constructed within the
               city's ETJ shall be constructed to conform to the design standards adopted by Johnson
               County, Texas.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.2, 4-26-1999;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 2, 6-19-2017
                  
               )"
Sec. 34-165.,Water and sanitary sewer.,"(a)

               Approved water and sewer system required. Subdivisions within the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be provided
               with an approved water supply and distribution system and with an approved sewage
               collection and disposal system. An adequate water supply and distribution system and
               sanitary sewer system, consistent with the master plan for water and sanitary sewer,
               shall be a condition of plat approval. For development located within the city's ETJ,
               a water supply and distribution system shall be considered adequate if it is licensed
               by the state or is a private well as permitted by applicable state regulations. A
               sewage collection and disposal system for a development located within the city's
               ETJ shall be considered adequate if it complies with Johnson County regulations governing
               sewage collection and disposal.

               (b)

               Subdivider to provide water and sewer facilities. The subdivider shall install all water and sanitary sewer facilities needed to serve
               the development and shall extend all water and sanitary sewer mains and appurtenances
               necessary to connect the development with the city's water supply and distribution
               system and with the city's sanitary sewer system.

               (c)

               City approval required for water and sewer system extensions. Extension of water and sanitary sewer lines to serve newly subdivided or platted
               land shall be authorized by the city only upon determination that all facilities necessary
               to serve the development are adequate. All extensions of water and sanitary lines
               must be approved by the city. If alternatives exist as to these extensions, the city
               shall have the authority to determine the most appropriate alternative. The city shall
               retain the authority to reject any extension not deemed to be in the best interest
               of the city.

               (d)

               On-site sewer systems. In locations where sanitary sewers are not available and where there are no immediate
               prospects for the installation of sanitary sewer, on-site sewer systems of an approved
               type may be installed in conformity with the rules, regulations, and ordinances of
               the county. In no case shall on-site sewer systems be installed without expressed
               approval and inspection by the city.

               (e)

               Minimum main sites. Sanitary sewer mains shall be a minimum of six-inch lines for residential development
               and a minimum of eight inch lines for all other development as determined by the city
               or as required to serve the development. The city may require oversizing in order
               to serve the remainder of the drainage basin beyond the property being served. Water
               mains shall be a minimum of six include lines for residential development and a minimum
               of eight-inch lines for all other development as determined by the city or as required
               to serve the development. In addition, the water mains shall be sized in accordance
               with the water system master plan. All water and sanitary sewer mains shall be extended
               through the development or across the frontage of the property along streets, alley,
               or in easements in order to provide service to adjacent property where applicable.

               (f)

               Facility locations to conform to master plan. The location of all water and sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances thereto necessary
               to serve platted land shall be in accordance with the city's master plan for water
               and sanitary sewer facilities.

               (g)

               City may participate in oversized facility improvements. The city may participate in any oversized lines required to serve land areas and
               improvements beyond the subdivision and the terms of such participation shall be approved
               by the city council.

               (h)

               Construction to conform to design standards. Construction of all water and sanitary sewer facilities required by these regulations
               shall be in accordance with the requirements and specifications contained in the design
               standards for the city, the regulations of the state natural resource conservation
               commission, state water commission, state department of insurance, and the currently
               adopted International Fire Code, which are incorporated herein by reference and made
               a part hereof.

               (i)

               Specifications for materials and workmanship. The specifications for materials and workmanship shall conform to the Standard Specifications
               for Public Works Construction, published by the North Central Texas Council of Governments.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.3, 4-26-1999;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 3, 6-19-2017
                  
               )"
Sec. 34-171.,Monuments.,"(a)

               Monuments consisting of three-quarter-inch diameter steel rods 24 inches long shall
               be placed at all corners of block lines, the point of intersection of alley and block
               lines, and at points of intersections of curves and tangents of the subdivision.

               (b)

               Lot markers consisting of one-half-inch diameter steel rods shall be placed at all
               lot corners.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.9, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 14-243.,Auction proceeds.,"(a)

               The police department is entitled to reimbursement from the proceeds of the sale of
               an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, outboard motor, or other property for:

               (1)

               The cost of the auction;

               (2)

               Towing, preservation, and storage fees resulting from the taking into custody; and

               (3)

               The cost of notice or publication as required by V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 683.012.

               (b)

               After deducting the reimbursement allowed under subsection (a) of this section, the
               proceeds of the sale shall be held for 90 days for the owner or lienholder of the
               vehicle.

               (c)

               After the period provided by subsection (b) of this section, proceeds unclaimed by
               the owner or lienholder shall be deposited in an account that may be used for the
               payment of auction, towing, preservation, storage, and notice and publication fees
               resulting from taking other vehicles, watercraft, outboard motors, or other property
               into custody if the proceeds from the sale of the other items are insufficient to
               meet those fees.

               (d)

               The city may transfer funds in excess of $1,000.00 from the account to the city's
               general revenue account to be used by the police department.

               (e)

               If the vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle impounded under V.T.C.A., Transportation
               Code § 644.153(q), the state department of public safety is entitled from the proceeds
               of the sale to an amount equal to the amount of the delinquent administrative penalty
               and costs."
Sec. 14-244.,Law enforcement agency use of certain abandoned motor vehicles.,"(a)

               If an abandoned vehicle is not claimed, the police department may:

               (1)

               Use the vehicle for agency purposes; or

               (2)

               Transfer the vehicle to any municipal or county agency or school district for the
               use of that agency or district.

               (b)

               The police department shall auction the vehicle as provided by this division if the
               police department or the municipal or county agency or school district to which the
               vehicle was transferred under subsection (a) of this section discontinues use of the
               vehicle.

               (c)

               This section does not apply to an abandoned vehicle on which there is a garagekeeper's
               lien.

               (d)

               This section does not apply to a vehicle that is removed to a privately owned storage
               facility.

               (e)

               The police department must comply with the notice requirements of V.T.C.A., Transportation
               Code § 683.012 before the department may transfer a vehicle under subsection (a)(2)
               of this section."
Sec. 14-245.,Records; fees.,"(a)

               The chief of police shall keep a record book which shall contain a description of
               all property impounded, the date and time of such impounding, the date notices of
               sale were posted and advertised and mailed to owners and lien holders, the return
               of receipts of registered notices, the date of the sale at auction, the amount realized
               for each article at such sale, the name and address of the owner and lien holders,
               if known, the name and address of the auction buyer, and any such other information
               as he may deem necessary.

               (b)

               The fees shall be charged as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution
               of the city council from time to time and paid into the city general fund.

               (Code 2008, § 94.34)"
Sec. 14-246.,Offense.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person maintains a nuisance described by section 14-239.

               (b)

               An offense under this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
               $200.00. Each day an offense occurs shall be a separate offense.

               (c)

               The municipal court of city may issue any necessary orders to enforce this section.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-015, § 2, 9-18-2017
                  
               )"
Secs. 14-247—14-268.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION,"Footnotes:  --- (11) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Oil and gas, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code ch. 81 et seq.; lease of municipal oil,
               gas or mineral land, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 253.005; disposition of the
               public domain, oil and gas, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code ch. 52; municipal regulation
               of exploration and development of mineral interests, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code
               § 92.007; access to property and records, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code § 91.1012."
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 38-190.,Director of public works to mark truck routes.,"The director of public works shall cause signs to be erected as necessary prohibiting
               truck traffic, except on marked truck routes and to mark such truck routes with signs.

               (Code 2008, § 70.91)"
Sec. 14-269.,Purpose.,"The exploration, development, and production of gas in the city is an activity which
               necessitates reasonable regulation to ensure that all property owners, mineral and
               otherwise, have the right to peaceably enjoy their property and its benefits and revenues.
               It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this section to establish reasonable and
               uniform limitations, safeguards and regulations for present and future operations
               related to the exploring, drilling, developing, producing, transporting and storing
               of gas and other substances produced in association with gas within the city to protect
               the health, safety and general welfare of the public; minimize the potential impact
               to property and mineral rights owners, protect the quality of the environment and
               ensure the orderly production of available mineral resources.

               (Code 2008, § 154.01)"
Sec. 14-270.,Definitions.,"All technical industry terms or phrases related to the drilling and production of
               gas wells not specifically defined in this section shall have the meanings customarily
               attributable thereto by prudent and reasonable gas industry operators. The following
               words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed
               to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

               Abandonment means abandonment as defined by the Texas Railroad Commission and includes the plugging
               of the well and the restoration of any well site as required by this section.

               Blowout preventer means a mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic or other device or combination of such devices
               secured to the top of a well casing, including valves, fittings and control mechanisms
               connected therewith, which can be closed around the drill pipe, or other tubular goods
               which completely close the top of the casing and are designed for preventing blowouts.

               Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
               The term ""building"" shall be construed as if followed by the term ""or portions thereof.""

               Cathodic protection means an electrochemical corrosion control technique accomplished by applying a direct
               current to the structure that causes the structure potential to change from the corrosion
               potential to a protective potential in the immunity region. The required cathodic
               protection current is supplied by sacrificial anode materials or by an impressed current
               system.

               Commission means the Texas Railroad Commission.

               Completion of drilling, redrilling and reworking means the date the work is completed for the drilling, redrilling or reworking and
               the crew is released by completing their work or contract or by their employer.

               Derrick means any portable framework, tower, mast and/or structure which is required or used
               in connection with drilling or reworking a well for the production of gas.

               Drill site means the premises used during the drilling or reworking of a well located there
               and subsequent life of a well or wells or any associated operation.

               Drilling means digging or boring a new well for the purpose of exploring for, developing or
               producing gas or other hydrocarbons, or for the purpose of injecting gas, water or
               any other fluid or substance into the earth.

               Drilling equipment means the derrick together with all parts of and appurtenances to such structure,
               every piece of apparatus, machinery or equipment used or erected or maintained for
               use in connection with drilling.

               Exploration means geologic or geophysical activities, including seismic surveys, related to the
               search for gas or other subsurface hydrocarbons.

               Gas means any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, which is produced in a natural
               state from the earth and which maintains a gaseous or rarefied state at standard temperature
               and pressure conditions and/or the gaseous components or vapors occurring in or derived
               from petroleum or natural gas.

               Gas well means any well drilled, to be drilled, or used for the intended or actual production
               of natural gas and all references to gas well or other gas production activities shall
               also mean any well drilled, to be drilled, or used for the intended or actual production
               of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

               Gas-well permit means a permit for the exploration, development and production of gas wells issued
               pursuant to the rules and regulations of this article.

               Historical site means a historic structure a defined by V.T.C.A., Government Code § 442.001, or a
               structure or property that is designated as historic by a political subdivision of
               the state, the state, or the federal government.

               Inspector means the gas well inspector of the city.

               Operation site means the area used for development and production and all operational activities
               associated with gas after drilling activities are complete.

               Operator means, for each well, the person listed on the railroad commission Form W-l or Form
               P-4 for a gas well that is, or will be, actually in charge and in control of drilling,
               maintaining, operating, pumping or controlling any well, including, without limitation,
               a unit operator. If the operator, as herein defined, is not the lessee under a gas
               lease of any premises affected by the provisions of this article, then such lessee
               shall also be deemed to be an operator. In the event that there is no gas lease relating
               to any premises affected by this article, the owner of the fee mineral estate in the
               premises shall be deemed an operator.

               Public park means any land area dedicated to and/or maintained by the city for traditional park-like
               recreational purposes, but shall not include privately-owned amusement parks or privately-owned
               or privately-managed golf courses.

               Re-drill means recompletion of an existing well by deepening or sidetrack operations extending
               more than 150 feet from the existing well bore.

               Refracture means the process of restimulating a well after initial completion using high-pressure
               hydraulic fracture techniques.

               Refracture permit means a permit authorizing the refracture of a completed well, issued pursuant to
               the rules and regulations of this article.

               Religious institution means any building in which persons regularly assemble for religious worship and
               activities intended primarily for purposes connected with such worship or for propagating
               a particular form of religious belief.

               Residence means a house, duplex, apartment, townhouse, condominium, mobile home or other building
               designed for dwelling purposes, including those for which a building permit has been
               issued on the date the application for a gas-well permit is filed with the inspector.

               Reworking means recompletion or reentry of an existing well within the existing bore hole or
               by deepening or sidetrack operations which do not extend more than 150 feet from the
               existing well bore, or replacement of well liners or casings.

               Right-of-way means public rights-of-way including streets, easements and other property within
               the city and which is dedicated to the use and benefit of the public.

               School means any public and private, primary and secondary educational facilities providing
               education up through and including the 12th grade level and any licensed day care
               centers, meaning a facility licensed by the state or by the city that provides care,
               training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than six children
               under 14 years of age, and for less than 24 hours per day.

               Seismic survey activity means any activity where, for any consideration whatsoever, shock waves, sound waves,
               or vibrations are generated for the purpose of surveying, mapping, identifying, classifying
               or otherwise distinguishing subsurface characteristics indicative of the presence
               or absence of hydrocarbon substances, including, but not limited to, oil and natural
               gas.

               Street means any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, recessed parking area or other
               public right-of-way, including the entire right-of-way.

               Tank means a container, covered or uncovered, used in conjunction with the drilling or
               production of gas or other hydrocarbons for holding or storing fluids.

               Technical advisor means such person familiar with and educated in the gas industry or the law as it
               relates to gas matters who may be retained from time to time by the city.

               Well means a hole, bore, to any horizon, formation, or strata for the purpose of producing
               gas, liquid hydrocarbon, brine water or sulphur water, or for use as an injection
               well for secondary recovery, disposal or production of gas, or other hydrocarbons
               from the earth.

               (Code 2008, § 154.02;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-022, § 1, 9-8-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 14-271.,Inspector.,"(a)

               The inspector shall enforce the provisions of this article and shall have the authority
               to issue any orders or directives required to carry out the intent and purpose of
               this article and its particular provisions. Failure of any person to comply with any
               such order or directive shall constitute a violation of this article.

               (b)

               The inspector shall have the authority to enter and inspect any premises covered by
               the provisions of this article to determine compliance with the provisions of this
               article and all applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards or directives of the
               state. Failure of any person to permit access to the inspector shall constitute a
               violation of this article. The inspector shall conduct periodic inspections at least
               once a year of all permitted wells in the city to determine that the wells are operating
               in accordance within proper safety parameters as set out in this article and all regulations
               of the commission.

               (c)

               The inspector shall have the authority to request and receive any records, including
               any records sent to the commission, logs, reports and the like, relating to the status
               or condition of any permitted well necessary to establish and determine compliance
               with the applicable gas-well permit. Failure of any person to provide any such requested
               material shall be deemed a violation of this article.

               (Code 2008, § 154.03)"
Sec. 14-272.,Operator's agent.,"Every operator of any well shall designate an agent, who is a resident of the state,
               upon whom all orders and notices provided in this article may be served in person
               or by registered or certified mail. A physical address will be required on all applications.
               No post office box addresses will be accepted. Every operator so designating such
               agent shall within ten days notify the inspector in writing of any change in such
               agent or such mailing address unless operations within the city are abandoned.

               (Code 2008, § 154.04)"
Sec. 14-273.,Technical advisor.,"The city may from time to time employ a technical advisor or advisors who are experienced
               and educated in the gas industry or the law as it pertains to gas matters. The function
               of such advisor shall be to advise, counselor represent the city on such matters relating
               to gas operations within the city as the city may want or require and the effect thereof,
               both present and future, on the health, welfare, comfort and safety of the citizens
               of the city. In the event such technical advisor is employed for the purpose of advising,
               counseling or representing the city relative to an operator's unique and particular
               set of circumstances, case or request relating to this article, then the cost for
               such services of such technical advisor shall be assessed against and paid for by
               such operator in addition to any fees or charges assessed pursuant to this article.
               Prior to the employment of a technical advisor, the city shall inform the operator
               of the intended scope of work and the estimated costs and expenses. The employment
               of a technical advisor shall be approved by the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 154.22)"
Sec. 14-274.,Penalty.,"It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to do the following:

                  (1)

                  Engage in any activity not permitted by the terms of a gas-well permit issued under
                  this article;

                  (2)

                  Fail to comply with any condition set forth in a gas-well permit issued under this
                  article; or

                  (3)

                  Violate any provision or requirement set forth under this article.

               (Code 2008, § 154.23; Ord. No. 2006-015, 2-20-2006)"
Sec. 34-206.,Purpose and policy.,"(a)

               These subdivision regulations of the city are designed and intended to achieve the
               following purposes and shall be administered so as to:

               (1)

               Promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community and the safe,
               orderly and healthful development of the city;

               (2)

               Establish adequate policies and procedures to guide development of the city and its
               extraterritorial jurisdiction;

               (3)

               Provide for the establishment of minimum specifications for construction and engineering
               design criteria for public infrastructure improvements to maintain land values, reduce
               inconveniences to residents of the area, and to reduce related unnecessary costs to
               the city for correction of inadequate facilities that are designed to serve the public;

               (4)

               Ensure that development of land and subdivisions shall be of such nature, shape, and
               location that utilization will not impair the general welfare;

               (5)

               Ensure against the dangers of fires, floods, erosion, landslides, or other such menaces;

               (6)

               Preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to ensure appropriate development
               with regard to these natural features;

               (7)

               Realistically and harmoniously relate new development of adjacent properties;

               (8)

               Provide the most beneficial circulation of traffic throughout the city, having particular
               regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways, and pedestrian
               traffic movements; and to provide for the proper location and width of streets;

               (9)

               Ensure that public facilities for water supply, drainage, disposal of sanitary and
               industrial waste, and parks are available for every building site and with adequate
               capacity to serve the proposed subdivision before issuance of a certificate of occupancy
               or release of utility connections or final inspection within the boundaries of the
               plat;

               (10)

               Ensure that new development adequately and fairly participates in the dedication and
               construction of public infrastructure improvements that are necessitated by or attributable
               to the development or that provide value or benefit that makes the development feasible;

               (11)

               Help prevent pollution, assure the adequacy of drainage facilities, control stormwater
               runoff, safeguard the water table, and encourage the wise use and management of natural
               resources throughout the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to preserve
               the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value of the land; and

               (12)

               Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of the land,
               while preserving the land use intensity as established in the zoning regulations of chapter 42.

               (b)

               To carry out the purposes hereinabove stated, it is declared to be the policy of the
               city to guide and regulate the subdivision and development of land in such a manner
               as to promote orderly growth both within the city and where applicable, within its
               extraterritorial jurisdiction.

               (c)

               Land must not be platted until proper provision has been made for adequate public
               facilities for roadways, drainage, water, wastewater, public utilities, capital improvements,
               parks, recreation facilities, and rights-of-way for streets.

               (d)

               Proposed plats or subdivisions which do not conform to the policies and regulations
               shall be denied, or, in lieu of denial, disapproved conditioned on conformance with
               conditions.

               (e)

               There shall be an essential nexus between the requirement to dedicate rights-of-way
               and easements and/or to construct public works improvements in connection with a new
               subdivision and the need to offset the impacts on the city's public facilities systems
               created by such new development.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.1, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 14-275.,Landfarming.,"(a)

               Landfarming or landfarm shall mean the deposit, spreading or mixing of drill cuttings, drilling fluids, drilling
               mud, produced water or other drilling waste generated by the oil and natural gas well
               drilling process on to property located within the territorial limits of the city.

               (b)

               The inspector, as defined in section 14-270, or the city manager, or their designated representatives, shall have the authority
               to enter and inspect any premises on which they have reason to believe that landfarming
               has occurred.

               (c)

               Landfarming shall be prohibited within the city, regardless of whether the landfarming
               operation is permitted or subject to permitting by the Texas Railroad Commission or
               other state or federal authority. Except where the temporary containment of drilling
               mud into appropriate pits is specifically authorized pursuant to City of Alvarado
               Code of Ordinances, it shall be an offense to landfarm in the city or for any land
               owner to allow landfarming on any property in the city.

               (Ord. No. 2010-012, § 2, 7-19-2010)"
Secs. 14-276—14-296.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,GAS-WELL PERMITS,NULL
Sec. 14-297.,Required.,"(a)

               A person wanting to engage in and operate in gas production activities shall apply
               for and obtain a gas-well permit under this Code. It shall be unlawful for any person
               acting either for himself or acting as agent, employee, independent contractor, or
               servant for any person to drill any well, assist in any way in the site preparation,
               reworking, fracturing or operation of any such well or to conduct any activity related
               to the production of gas without first obtaining a gas-well permit issued by the city
               in accordance with this Code. Such activities include, but are not limited to reworking,
               initial site preparation, drilling, operation, construction of rigs or tank batteries,
               fracturing and pressurizing.

               (b)

               The operator must apply for and obtain a gas-well permit for the drilling, redrilling,
               deepening, reentering, activating or converting of each well. Each proposed well hole
               shall require a separate permit and shall not be permitted on a blanket basis.

               (c)

               A gas-well permit shall not constitute authority for the reentering and drilling of
               an abandoned well. An operator shall obtain a new gas-well permit in accordance with
               the provisions of this Code if the operator is reentering and drilling an abandoned
               well.

               (d)

               When a gas-well permit has been issued to the operator for the drilling, re-drilling,
               deepening, reentering, activating or converting of a well, such gas-well permit shall
               constitute sufficient authority for drilling, operation, production gathering or production
               maintenance, repair, reworking, testing, plugging and abandonment of the well and/or
               any other activity associated with mineral exploration at the site of such well; provided,
               however, that a new or supplemental permit shall be obtained before such well may
               be reworked for purposes of re-drilling, deepening or converting such well to a depth
               or use other than that set forth in the then-current permit for such well.

               (e)

               Any person who intends to refracture a permitted well after initial completion shall
               apply for and obtain a refracture permit. Application for a refracture permit must
               be submitted no later than 45 days before the activities are proposed to begin and
               must include an inspection fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by
               resolution of the city council from time to time. The application must identify where
               the activities will be conducted and describe the activities in detail. Within ten
               days after the permit is submitted the applicant shall provide evidence to the inspector
               that notice of the proposed refracture has been provided to each surface owner of
               property, as shown by the current tax role, within 600 feet of the proposed refracture
               site. The notice must also include the address and 24-hour phone number of the person
               conducting the activities. If requested by the inspector, the person conducting the
               refracture activities must post a sign on the property giving the public notice of
               the activities, including the name, address and 24-hour phone number of the person
               conducting the activities. Reinspection by the inspector of the proposed refracture
               site to ensure continued compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall occur
               within 20 days of the date of submission of the refracture permit. The inspector shall
               submit recommendations to the city council regarding the approval of the refracture
               permit authorizing a one-time refracture of a single completed well, including such
               restrictions or conditions the inspector deems appropriate. The city council shall
               review and consider an application for a refracture permit at the next regularly scheduled
               council meeting after receiving the inspector's recommendations. In determining whether
               to grant a refracture permit, the council shall consider the applicable factors set
               forth in this chapter for the initial gas-well permit. Refracture activities shall
               comply with all other provisions of this chapter governing fracture stimulation operations.
               Each completed well proposed for refracture shall require a separate permit.

               (f)

               The following requirements shall apply to all fracture stimulation operations performed
               on a well within 600 feet of an occupied residence:

               (1)

               At least 48 hours before operations are commenced, the operator shall post a sign
               at the entrance of the well site advising the public of the date the operations will
               commence;

               (2)

               Flow-back operations to recover fluids used during fracture stimulation shall be performed
               during daylight hours only unless the inspector approves such operations during nondaylight
               hours;

               (3)

               A watchman shall be required at all times during such operations; and

               (4)

               At no time shall the well be allowed to flow or vent directly to the atmosphere without
               first directing the flow through separation equipment or into a portable tank.

               (g)

               A gas-well permit shall automatically terminate, unless extended, if drilling is not
               commenced within 180 days from the date of the issuance. A gas-well permit may be
               extended by the inspector for one additional period of 180 days upon request by the
               operator and proof that the classification of the requested gas well permit for such
               location has not changed.

               (h)

               The gas-well permit required by this article is in addition to and are not in lieu
               of any permit which may be required by any other provision of this Code or by any
               other governmental agency.

               (i)

               No gas-well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled within any floodway.

               (j)

               No gas-well permit shall be issued for any property not appropriately zoned by the
               city for natural gas exploration, production and development.

               (k)

               By acceptance of any gas-well permit issued pursuant to this division, the operator
               expressly stipulates and agrees to be bound by and comply with the provisions of this
               Code. The terms of this Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in any gas-well permit
               issued pursuant to this division with the same force and effect as if this division
               was set forth verbatim in such gas-well permit.

               (Code 2008, § 154.05)"
Sec. 14-298.,Application and filing fees.,"(a)

               Every application for a gas-well permit issued pursuant to this Code shall be in writing
               signed by the operator, or some person duly authorized to sign on his behalf, and
               filed with the inspector.

               (b)

               Every application for a permit to drill a well or to install a water and/or gas repressurizing
               or injection facility, or conduct any mineral exploration, shall be in writing, signed
               by the applicant or some person duly authorized to sign on his behalf; and it shall
               be filed with the city secretary. In case a permit is requested for the purpose of
               drilling a well or reentering and drilling to a deeper formation, the application
               shall be accompanied by a filing fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (c)

               The application shall include the following information:

               (1)

               The date of the application and type of gas-well permit requested.

               (2)

               An accurate legal description of the lease property to be used for the gas operation,
               the parcel and the production unit and name of the geologic formation as used by the
               commission. Property recorded by plat should reference subdivision, block and lot
               numbers.

               (3)

               Map showing proposed transportation route and road for equipment, chemicals or waste
               products used or produced by the gas operation.

               (4)

               Proposed well name.

               (5)

               Surface owner names and addresses of the lease property.

               (6)

               Mineral lessee name and address.

               (7)

               Operator/applicant name and address and if the operator is a corporation, the state
               of incorporation, and if the operator is a partnership, the names and addresses of
               the general partners.

               (8)

               Name and address of individual designated to receive notice.

               (9)

               Name of representative with supervisory authority over all gas operation site activities
               and a 24-hour phone number.

               (10)

               Location and description of all improvements and structures within 600 feet of the
               well.

               (11)

               Owner and address of each parcel of property within 600 feet of the proposed drill
               site.

               (12)

               A site plan of the proposed operation site showing the location of all improvements
               and equipment, including the location of the proposed well and other facilities, including,
               but not limited to, tanks, pipelines, compressors, separators and storage sheds.

               (13)

               The name, address, and 24-hour phone number of the person to be notified in case of
               an emergency.

               (14)

               The exact and correct acreage and number of wells.

               (15)

               Copies of all reports required by the commission.

               (16)

               A signed road maintenance agreement supplied by the city that provides that the operator
               shall repair, at his own expense, any damage to roads, streets, utilities or highways
               caused by the use of heavy vehicles for any activity associated with the preparation,
               drilling, production, and operation of gas wells.

               (17)

               A description of public utilities required during drilling and operation.

               (18)

               A description of the water source to be used during drilling.

               (19)

               A copy of the approved commission permit to drill together with attachments and survey
               plats which are applicable to the drill and operation sites.

               (20)

               A copy of the stormwater pollution prevention plan as required by the Environmental
               Protection Agency. A copy of the notice of intent shall be submitted to the city inspector,
               three days prior to the commencement of any on-site activity.

               (21)

               A copy of the determination by the state commission on environmental quality of the
               depth of useable quality groundwater.

               (22)

               Evidence of insurance and security requirements under this Code.

               (23)

               A statement, under oath, signed by the operator, or designated representative, that
               the information submitted with the application is, to the best knowledge and belief
               of the operator or designated representative, true and correct.

               (24)

               All required application and gas-well permit fees.

               (25)

               A landscaping plan, as required by section 14-360.

               (Code 2008, § 154.06; Ord. No. 2006-005, 11-21-2005)"
Sec. 14-299.,Permit procedure.,"(a)

               An application for a well permit shall include all the requirements of section 14-298 as well as a detailed site plan that includes specific details regarding the projected
               location of the major components of the drilling site, impacted vegetation, creeks
               and other topographic features, adjacent building and other structures and the measured
               distance from the well site to these buildings and structures, temporary and permanent
               fencing and landscaping.

               (b)

               The permitting procedure for a gas-well permit shall be as follows:

               (1)

               Within 45 days of receipt of an application that complies in all respects with the
               provisions of this Code, the inspector shall request that the matter be placed on
               the city council agenda for a public hearing and give notice by mail of the time,
               place and purpose thereof to the applicant and any other party who has requested in
               writing to be so notified. The 45-day period shall not begin to run until the applicant/operator
               has provided the inspector with a complete and fully compliant application package.

               (2)

               At least 20 days, and no more than 30 days prior to the date of the public hearing
               before the city council for a gas-well permit the operator shall notify, at the operator's
               expense, each surface owner of property, as shown by the current tax roll, within
               600 feet of the proposed well not owned by or under lease to the operator and the
               hearing date and time. Such notice, as outlined below, shall be by depositing the
               same, properly addressed and postage paid, in the United States mail. The operator
               shall file an affidavit with the inspector showing the name and last known address,
               as identified by the current tax roll, of each owner of property to whom notice was
               mailed and the names of each owner of property to whom notice is required to be given,
               but whose address is unknown. Notice shall be sent to all registered neighborhood
               associations within one-half mile of the proposed drill site.

               (3)

               At least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing before city council for a
               gas-well permit the operator, at the operator's expense, shall publish a copy of the
               notice as outlined below in two consecutive issues of the weekly official newspaper
               of the city. An affidavit by the printer or publisher of the newspaper indicating
               publication of the notice shall be filed with the application and will be prima facie
               evidence of such publication. The notice shall read as follows:

               ""Notice is hereby given that, acting under and pursuant to the ordinances of the City
               of Alvarado, Texas, on the _____ day of ___________, 20___, filed with the City of
               Alvarado, an application for a gas-well permit to drill, complete and operate a well
               for gas upon property located at Johnson County, Alvarado, Texas, more particularly
               shown on the map of record in volume _____, page _____, plat records of Johnson County,
               Texas or per tax tract number _____, Johnson County, Texas. The city council will
               conduct a public hearing on the request for said permit on the _____ day of ___________,
               20___, at ___o'clock ___.m. in the City Council Chambers located at 104 W. College,
               Alvarado, Texas.""

               (4)

               At least 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing before the city council for
               a gas-well permit the operator shall, at the operator's expense, erect at least one
               sign, no less than three feet by three feet, upon the premises upon which a gas-well
               permit has been requested. Where possible, the sign or signs shall be located in a
               conspicuous place or places upon the property at a point or points nearest any right-of-way,
               street, roadway or public thoroughfare adjacent to such property.

               a.

               The sign shall substantially indicate that a gas-well permit to drill for gas has
               been requested and state the date, time and place of the public hearing, and shall
               further set forth that additional information can be acquired by telephoning the applicant/operator
               at the number indicated on the sign.

               b.

               The continued maintenance of any such sign shall not be deemed a condition precedent
               to the holding of any public hearing or to any other official action pursuant to this
               article.

               c.

               Any sign shall be removed by the applicant/owner subsequent to final action by the
               city council.

               (5)

               All notice provisions contained herein shall be deemed sufficient upon substantial
               compliance with this section.

               (6)

               After a gas-well permit application is submitted, the inspector shall evaluate the
               public impact of the proposed activity. The inspector shall consider the proposed
               site and the proposed operations or drilling program and shall draft recommended restrictions
               or conditions, including minimum separation distance for drilling or other operations,
               special safety equipment and procedures, recommended noise reduction levels, screening
               and any other requirements the inspector deems appropriate. The recommendation shall
               be submitted to the city council for consideration prior to the public hearing.

               (7)

               The burden of proof on all matters considered in the hearing shall be upon the applicant/operator.

               (8)

               The city council shall review the application and any other related information. The
               city council shall consider the following in deciding whether to grant a gas-well
               permit:

               a.

               Whether the operations proposed are reasonable under the circumstances and conditions
               prevailing in the area considering the particular location and the character of the
               improvements located there;

               b.

               Whether the drilling of such wells would conflict with the orderly growth and development
               of the city;

               c.

               Whether there are other alternative well site locations;

               d.

               Whether the operations proposed are consistent with the health, safety and welfare
               of the public when and if conducted in accordance with the gas-well permit conditions
               to be imposed;

               e.

               Whether there is acceptable access for the city fire personnel and firefighting equipment;
               and

               f.

               Whether the impact upon the adjacent property and the general public by operations
               conducted in compliance with the gas-well permit conditions are reasonable and justified,
               balancing the following factors:

               1.

               The right of the owners of the mineral estate to explore, develop, and produce the
               minerals; and

               2.

               The availability of alternative drill sites;

               g.

               The recommendations of the inspector.

               (9)

               The city council may require an increase in the distance the well is setback from
               any residence, religious institution, hospital building, school, cemetery, historical
               site or public park, or require any change in operation, plan, design, layout or any
               change in the on-site and technical regulations in division 4 of this article, including
               fencing, screening, lighting, delivery times, noise levels, tank height, or any other
               matters reasonably required by public interest.

               (10)

               No gas-well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled within any public park
               without the prior consent of the city council. The city council shall review the insurance
               and security requirements on an individual basis prior to issuing the permit.

               (11)

               The city council may accept, reject or modify the application in the interest of securing
               compliance with this article, this Code and/or to protect the health, safety and welfare
               of the community.

               (Code 2008, § 154.07)"
Sec. 38-291.,Following vehicle in response to accident report prohibited.,"No person in a tow truck shall follow any ambulance or police car which is traveling
               on a public street in response to a report of a vehicular collision or accident.

               (Code 2008, § 72.18)"
Sec. 38-292.,Impoundment of wrecked vehicle.,"Any police officer may direct that any vehicle shall be taken by the driver of the
               tow truck towing the vehicle directly to the city pound and there held by the city
               for inspection or investigation to determine the cause or reason for the accident
               such vehicle was involved in or such vehicle's disability or for any lawful purpose.

               (Code 2008, § 72.19)"
Sec. 14-300.,Amended permits.,"(a)

               An operator may submit an application to the inspector to amend an existing gas-well
               permit in accordance with this section.

               (b)

               Applications for amended gas-well permits shall be in writing, shall be signed by
               the operator, and shall include the following:

               (1)

               An amended application fee in the amount as currently established or as hereafter
               adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (2)

               A description of the proposed amendments.

               (3)

               Any changes to the information submitted with the application for the existing gas-well
               permit (if such information has not previously been provided to the city).

               (4)

               Such additional information as is reasonably required by the inspector to demonstrate
               compliance with the applicable gas-well permit.

               (5)

               Such additional information as is reasonably required by the inspector to prevent
               imminent destruction of property or injury to persons.

               (c)

               All applications for amended gas-well permits shall be filed with the inspector for
               review. Incomplete applications may be returned to the applicant, in which case the
               city shall provide a written explanation of the deficiencies; however, the city shall
               retain the application fee. The city may return any application as incomplete if there
               is a dispute pending before the railroad commission regarding the determination of
               the operator.

               (d)

               The inspector shall place the application for amended gas-well permit on the city
               council agenda for consideration. No additional notice or public hearing shall be
               required in this case. If, however, the activities proposed by the amendment are materially
               different and, in the judgment of the inspector, might create a risk of imminent destruction
               of property or injury to persons that was not associated with the activities covered
               by the existing gas-well permit or that was not otherwise taken into consideration
               by the existing gas-well permit, the inspector may require the amendment to be processed
               as a new gas-well permit application.

               (Code 2008, § 154.08)"
Sec. 14-301.,Suspension or revocation; appeal.,"(a)

               If an operator (or its officers, employees, agents, contractors, or representatives)
               fails to comply with any requirement of a gas-well permit (including any requirement
               incorporated by reference as part of the gas-well permit), the inspector shall give
               written notice to the operator specifying the nature of the failure and giving the
               operator a reasonable time to cure, taking into consideration the nature and extent
               of the failure, the extent of the efforts required to cure, and the potential impact
               on the health, safety, and welfare of the community. In no event, however, shall the
               cure period be less than 30 days unless the failure presents a risk of imminent destruction
               of property or injury to persons or unless the failure involves the operator's failure
               to provide periodic reports as required by this Code.

               (b)

               If the operator fails to correct the noncompliance within 30 days from the date of
               the notice, the inspector may suspend or revoke the gas-well permit pursuant to the
               provisions of this Code.

               (c)

               No person shall carry on any operations performed under the terms of the gas-well
               permit issued under this division during any period of any gas-well permit suspension
               or revocation or pending a review of the decision or order of the city in suspending
               or revoking the gas-well permit. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent
               the necessary, diligent and bona fide efforts to cure and remedy the default or violation
               for which the suspension or revocation of the gas-well permit was ordered for the
               safety of persons or as required by the railroad commission.

               (d)

               If the operator does not cure the noncompliance within the time specified in this
               section, the inspector, upon written notice to the operator, may notify the commission
               and request that the railroad commission take any appropriate action.

               (e)

               Operator may, within 30 days of the date of the decision of the inspector in writing
               to suspend or revoke a gas-well permit, file an appeal to the city council under the
               provisions outlined in this section.

               (f)

               The city council shall have and exercise the power to hear and determine appeals where
               it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion regarding the revocation or suspension
               of any gas-well permit issued by the inspector of a gas-well permit as provided by
               this section. Any person or entity whose permit is suspended or revoked or whose well
               or equipment is deemed by the inspector to be abandoned may, within 30 days of the
               date of the written decision of the inspector file an appeal to the city council in
               accordance with the following procedure:

               (1)

               An appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed in triplicate with the city secretary.
               The grounds for appeal must be set forth specifically, and the error described, by
               the appellant.

               (2)

               Within 45 days of receipt of the records, the city secretary shall transmit all papers
               involved in the proceeding, place the matter on the city council agenda for hearing
               and give notice by mail of the time, place and purpose thereof to appellant and any
               other party who has requested in writing to be so notified. No other notice need to
               be given.

               (g)

               Appeal fees shall be required for every appeal in the amount as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (h)

               The decision of the city council shall be final and binding on the appellant.

               (Code 2008, § 154.09)"
Sec. 14-354.,On site requirements.,"(a)

               Abandoned wells. All wells shall be abandoned in accordance with the rules of the railroad commission;
               however, all well casings shall be cut and removed to a depth of at least ten feet
               below the surface unless the surface owner submits a written agreement otherwise.
               Three feet shall be the minimum depth. No structure shall be built over an abandoned
               well.

               (b)

               Blowout prevention. In all cases, blowout prevention equipment shall be used on all wells being drilled,
               worked-over or in which tubing is being changed. Protection shall be provided to prevent
               blowout during gas operations as required by and in conformance with the requirements
               of the commission and the recommendations of the American Petroleum Institute. The
               operator must equip all drilling wells with adequate blowout preventors, flow lines
               and valves commensurate with the working pressures involved as required by the commission.

               (c)

               Compliance. The operator shall comply at all times with all applicable state, federal, and city
               requirements.

               (d)

               Discharge. No person shall place, deposit, discharge, or cause or permit to be placed, deposited
               or discharged, any oil, naphtha, petroleum, asphalt, tar, hydrocarbon substances or
               any refuse including wastewater or brine from any gas operation or the contents of
               any container used in connection used in connection with any gas operation in, into,
               or upon any public right-of-way, alleys, streets, lots, storm drain, ditch or sewer,
               sanitary drain, or any body of water or any private property in the city.

               (e)

               Drill-stem testing. All open-hole formation or drill-stem testing shall be done during daylight hours.
               Drill-stem tests may be conducted only if the well effluent during the test is produced,
               through an adequate gas separator to storage tanks and the effluent remaining in the
               drill pipe at the time the tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating
               drilling fluid down the annulus and up the drill pipe.

               (f)

               Dust, vibration, odors. All drilling and production operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to
               minimize, so far as practicable, dust, vibration, or noxious odors, and shall be in
               accordance with the best accepted practices incident to drilling for the production
               of gas and other hydrocarbon substances in urban areas. All equipment used shall be
               so constructed and operated so that, vibrations, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying
               substances or effect will be minimized by the operations carried on at any drilling
               or production site or from anything incident thereto, to the injury or annoyance of
               persons living in the vicinity; nor shall the site or structures thereon be permitted
               to become dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe. Proven technological improvements in industry
               standards of drilling and production in this area shall be adopted as they become
               available if capable of reducing factors of dust, vibration and odor.

               (g)

               Electric lines. All electric lines to production facilities shall be located in a manner compatible
               to those already installed in the surrounding area or subdivision.

               (h)

               Electric motors. Only electric prime movers or motors shall be permitted for the purpose of pumping
               wells. No electric power shall be generated on location. All electrical installations
               and equipment shall conform to the city ordinances and the appropriate national codes.

               (i)

               Emergency response plan. Prior to the commencement of any gas or other hydrocarbons production activities,
               the operator shall submit to the inspector an emergency response plan establishing
               written procedures to minimize any hazard resulting from drilling, completion or producing
               of gas wells. Said plan shall use existing guidelines established by the Texas Commission
               on Environmental Quality, Department of Transportation and/or the Environmental Protection
               Agency.

               (j)

               Equipment painted. All production equipment on the site shall be painted and maintained at all times,
               including pumping units, storage tanks, buildings and structures.

               (k)

               Fire prevention; sources of ignition. Firefighting apparatus and supplies as approved by the fire department and required
               by any applicable federal, state, or local law shall be provided by the operator,
               at the operator's cost, and shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times
               during drilling and production operations. The operator shall be responsible for the
               maintenance and upkeep of such equipment. Each well shall be equipped with an automated
               valve that closes the well in the event of an abnormal change in operating pressure.
               All well heads shall contain an emergency shut off valve to the well distribution
               line.

               (l)

               Freshwater wells.

               (1)

               It shall be unlawful to drill any well, the center of which, at the surface of the
               ground, is located within 200 feet to any freshwater well. The measurement shall be
               in a direct line from the closest well bore to the freshwater well bore.

               (2)

               The operator of a gas well shall provide the inspector with a pre-drilling and post-drilling
               water analysis from any freshwater well within 500 feet of the gas well.

               (3)

               Within 180 days of its completion date, each gas well shall be equipped with a cathodic
               protection system to protect the production casing from external corrosion. The inspector
               may approve an alternative method of protecting the production casing from external
               corrosion.

               (m)

               Gas emission or burning restricted. No person shall allow, cause or permit gases to be vented into the atmosphere or
               to be burned by open flame except as provided by law or as permitted by the commission.
               If the venting of gases into the atmosphere or the burning of gases by open flame
               is authorized as provided by law or as permitted by the commission, then such vent
               or open flame shall not be located closer than 300 feet from any building not used
               in operations on the drilling site and such vent or open flame shall be screened in
               such a way as to minimize detrimental effects to adjacent property owners.

               (n)

               Grass, weeds, trash. All drill and operation sites shall be kept clear of grass or weeds over ten inches
               in height and combustible trash within a radius of 100 feet around any gas tank or
               tanks or producing wells.

               (o)

               Hazardous plan. A hazardous materials management plan shall be on file with the fire marshal and
               the inspector.

               (p)

               Lights. No person shall permit any lights located on any drill or operation site to be directed
               in such a manner so that they shine directly on public roads, adjacent property or
               property in the general vicinity of the operation site. To the extent practicable,
               and taking into account safety considerations, site lighting shall be directed downward
               and internally so as to avoid glare on public roads and adjacent dwellings and buildings
               within 300 feet.

               (q)

               Muffling exhaust.

               (1)

               Exhaust from any internal combustion engine, stationary or mounted on wheels, used
               in connection with the drilling of any well or for use on any production equipment
               shall not be discharged into the open air unless it is equipped with an exhaust muffler,
               or mufflers or an exhaust muffler box constructed of noncombustible materials sufficient
               to suppress noise and prevent the escape of obnoxious gases, fumes or ignited carbon
               or soot.

               (2)

               All formation fracturing operations shall be conducted during daylight hours unless
               the operator has notified the inspector that fracturing will occur before or after
               daylight hours to meet safety requirements.

               (r)

               Pits. Lined earthen mud or circulating pits shall be used. Such pits and contents shall
               be removed from the premises and the drilling site within 60 days after completion
               of the well.

               (s)

               Private roads and drill sites. Prior to the commencement of any drilling operations, all private roads used for
               access to the drill site and the operation site itself shall be at least ten feet
               wide, have an overhead clearance of 14 feet and shall be surfaced with crushed rock,
               gravel or ore and maintained to prevent dust and mud. In particular cases these requirements
               governing surfacing of private roads may be altered at the discretion of the inspector
               after consideration of all circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:

               (1)

               Distances from public streets and highways;

               (2)

               Distances from adjoining and nearby property owners whose surface rights are not leased
               by the operation;

               (3)

               The purpose for which the property of such owners is or may be used;

               (4)

               Topographical features;

               (5)

               Nature of the soil; and

               (6)

               Exposure to wind.

               (t)

               Vehicle routes.

               (1)

               Vehicles associated with drilling and/or production in excess of three tons shall
               be restricted to such streets designated as either truck routes or commercial delivery
               routes by the city wherever capable of being used. The vehicles shall be operated
               on a truck route wherever capable of being used; they shall be operated on a commercial
               delivery route only when it is not possible to use a truck route to fulfill the purpose
               for which such vehicle is then being operated. Commercial delivery route means any
               street or highway so designated by the city council for the use by any commercial
               motor vehicle, truck-tractor, trailer, semitrailer, or any combination thereof.

               (2)

               The operator shall keep thoroughfares throughout the city free from dirt, dust, mud,
               or other debris deposited by vehicles involved in the well drilling or servicing or
               pipeline installation process. The operator shall eliminate dirt, dust, mud, or other
               debris accumulations within two hours of notification by the city. If for safety or
               other reasons, the city elects to perform the removal, the cost of such removal shall
               be paid by the operator.

               (u)

               Salt water wells. No salt water disposal wells shall be located within the city.

               (v)

               Storage of equipment.

               (1)

               On-site storage is prohibited on the operation site. No equipment shall be stored
               on the drilling or production operation site, unless it is necessary to the everyday
               operation of the well. Lumber, pipes, tubing and casing shall not be left on the operation
               site except when drilling or well servicing operations are being conducted on the
               site.

               (2)

               No vehicle or item of machinery shall be parked or stored on any street, right-of-way
               or in any driveway, alley or upon any operation site which constitutes, in the opinion
               of the fire department chief or his designee, a fire hazard or an obstruction to or
               interference with fighting or controlling fires except that equipment which is necessary
               for drilling or production operations on the site.

               (3)

               No refinery, processing, treating, dehydrating or absorption plant of any kind shall
               be constructed, established or maintained on the premises. This shall not be deemed
               to exclude a conventional gas separator or dehydrator.

               (w)

               Storage tanks. Unless otherwise directed by the commission, all tanks used for storage shall conform
               to the following:

               (1)

               The operator must use portable closed steel storage tanks for storing liquid hydrocarbons.
               Tanks must meet the American Petroleum Institute standards. All tanks must have a
               vent line, flame arrester and pressure-relief valve. All tanks must be enclosed within
               the fence required by section 14-358. No tank battery shall be within 100 feet of any dwelling or other combustible structure.

               (2)

               All tanks and permanent structures shall conform to the American Petroleum Institute
               (API) specifications unless other specifications are approved by the fire department
               chief. The top of the tanks shall be no higher than eight feet above the terrain surrounding
               the tanks. All storage tanks shall be equipped with a secondary containment system
               including lining with an impervious material. The secondary containment system shall
               be a minimum of three feet in height and 1½ times the contents of the largest tank
               in accordance with the fire code, and buried at least one foot below the surface.
               Drip pots shall be provided at the pump out connection to contain the liquids from
               the storage tank.

               (3)

               All tanks shall be set back pursuant to the standards of the commission and the National
               Fire Protection Association, but in all cases, shall be at least 25 feet from any
               public right-of-way or property line. Each storage tank shall be equipped with a level
               control device that will automatically activate a valve to close the well in the event
               of excess liquid accumulation in the tank.

               (4)

               No meters, storage tanks, separation facilities, or other aboveground facilities,
               other than the well head and flow lines, shall be placed in a floodway or the 100-year
               floodplain.

               (5)

               Tanks must be at least 100 feet from any residence, religious institution, hospital
               building, school, cemetery, historical site or combustible structure.

               (x)

               Tank battery facilities. Tank batteries containing flammable materials shall be equipped with a remote foam
               line which extends from the tank battery to a point adjacent to the emergency shut
               off valve which shall extend a minimum distance of 125 feet from the nearest tank
               and 125 feet from the well head. Tank batteries will also have a lightening arrestor
               system.

               (y)

               Surface casing. Surface casing shall be run and set in full compliance with the applicable rules
               and regulations of the commission.

               (z)

               Valves. Each well must have an emergency shut-off valve to terminate well production. This
               emergency valve shall be a minimum distance of 125 feet from the well head and a minimum
               distance of 125 feet from the nearest tank.

               (aa)

               Waste disposal.

               (1)

               Drilling mud, cuttings, liquid hydrocarbons and all other field waste derived or resulting
               from or connected with the drilling, reworking or deepening of any well shall be discharged
               into a lined earthen pit.

               (2)

               Unless otherwise directed by the commission, waste materials shall be removed from
               the site and transported to an off-site disposal facility not less often than every
               30 days. Water stored in on-site tanks shall be removed as necessary.

               (3)

               All waste shall be disposed of in such a manner as to comply with the air and water
               pollution control regulations of the state, this section and any other applicable
               ordinance of the city.

               (bb)

               Watchman. The operator must keep a watchman or security personnel on site during the drilling
               or reworking of a well when other workmen are not on the premises.

               (cc)

               Restroom facilities. Restroom facilities are to meet the requirements as stated by OSHA and other appropriate
               regulatory agencies.

               (dd)

               Work hours. Site development, other than drilling, shall be conducted only between 7:00 a.m.
               and 10:00 p.m. Truck deliveries of equipment and materials associated with drilling
               and/or production, well servicing, site preparation and other related work conducted
               on the well site shall be limited to between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
               except in cases of fires, blowouts, explosions and any other emergencies or where
               the delivery of equipment is necessary to prevent the cessation of drilling or production.

               (Code 2008, § 154.14;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-011, §§ 1, 2, 5-16-2016
                  
               )"
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 38-19.,Definitions.,"All words and phrases in this chapter shall have the same meanings and definitions
               ascribed to them in the state rules of the road, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code chs.
               541—-600, or any other state motor vehicle law or city ordinance as may be provided.

               (Code 2008, § 70.02)"
Sec. 14-302.,Periodic reports.,"(a)

               The operator shall notify the inspector of any changes to the following information
               within one business week after the change occurs:

               (1)

               The name, address (physical address), and phone number of the operator.

               (2)

               The name, address (physical address), and phone number of the person designated to
               receive notices from the city (which person must be a resident of the state that can
               be served in person or by registered or certified mail).

               (3)

               The operator's emergency action response plan (including drive-to-maps from public
               rights-of-way to each drill site).

               (b)

               The operator shall notify the inspector of any change to the name, address, and 24-hour
               phone number of the person with supervisory authority over drilling or operations
               activities within one business day.

               (c)

               The operator shall provide a copy of any incident reports or written complaints submitted
               to the railroad commission of any notice of violation from the railroad commission
               within 30 days after the operator has notice of the existence of such reports or complaints.

               (d)

               Beginning on December 31 after each well is completed, and continuing on each December
               31 thereafter until the operator notifies the inspector that the well has been abandoned
               and the site restored, the operator shall submit a written report to the inspector
               identifying any changes to the information that was included in the application for
               the applicable gas-well permit that have not been previously reported to the city.

               (e)

               The inspector shall perform an annual site inspection to ensure that the operator
               is conducting operations in compliance with the gas-well permit and the provisions
               of this article and to verify the accuracy of the information reported pursuant to
               this section. The operator shall pay an annual inspection fee in the amount as currently
               established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to
               time.

               (Code 2008, § 154.10)"
Secs. 14-303—14-322.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,"INSURANCE, BOND AND INDEMNITY",NULL
Sec. 14-323.,"Bond, irrevocable letter of credit.","(a)

               Prior to the issuance of a gas-well permit the operator shall provide the inspector
               with a security instrument in the form of a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit
               as follows:

               (1)

               Bond. A bond shall be executed by a reliable bonding or insurance institution authorized
               to do business in the state, acceptable to the city. The bond shall become effective
               on or before the date the gas-well permit is issued and shall remain in force and
               effect for at least a period of six months after the expiration of the gas-well permit
               term or until the well is plugged and abandoned and the site is restored, whichever
               occurs first. The operator shall be listed as principal and the instrument shall run
               to the city, as obligee, and shall be conditioned that the operator will comply with
               the terms and regulations of this article and the city. The original bond shall be
               submitted to the city secretary with a copy of the same provided to the inspector.

               (2)

               Letter of credit. A letter of credit shall be issued by a reliable bank authorized to do business in
               the state and shall become effective on or before the date the gas-well permit is
               issued. The letter of credit shall remain in force and effect for at least a period
               of six months after the expiration of the gas-well permit term. the city shall be
               authorized to draw upon such letter of credit to recover any fines or penalties assessed
               under this article. Evidence of the execution of a letter of credit shall be submitted
               to the city secretary by submitting an original signed letter of credit from the banking
               institution, with a copy of the same provided to the inspector.

               (b)

               The principal amount of any security instrument shall be $50,000.00 for any single
               well. During reworking operations, the amount of the bond or letter of credit shall
               be maintained at $50,000.00. If at any time after no less than a 15-day written notice
               to the operator and a public hearing, the city council shall deem any operator's bond
               or letter of credit to be insufficient, the city council may require the operator
               to increase the amount of the bond or letter of credit up to a maximum of $250,000.00
               per well.

               (c)

               Whenever the inspector finds that a default has occurred in the performance of any
               requirement or condition imposed by this article, a written notice shall be given
               to the operator. Such notice shall specify the work to be done, the estimated cost
               and the period of time deemed by the inspector to be reasonably necessary for the
               completion of such work. After receipt of such notice, the operator shall, within
               the time therein specified, either cause or require the work to be performed, or failing
               to do so, shall pay to the city 125 percent of the estimated cost of doing the work
               as set forth in the notice. In no event, however, shall the cure period be less than
               30 days unless the failure presents a risk of imminent destruction of property or
               injury to persons or unless the failure involves the operator's failure to provide
               periodic reports as required by this article. The city shall be authorized to draw
               against any irrevocable letter of credit or bond to recover such amount due from the
               operator. Upon receipt of such monies, the city shall proceed by such mode as deemed
               convenient to cause the required work to be performed and completed, but no liability
               shall be incurred other than for the expenditure of said sum in hand. In the event
               that the well has not been properly abandoned under the regulations of the commission,
               such additional money may be demanded from the operator as is necessary to properly
               plug and abandon the well and restore the drill site in conformity with the regulations
               of this Code.

               (d)

               In the event the operator does not cause the work to be performed and fails or refuses
               to pay over to the city the estimated cost of the work to be done as set forth in
               the notice, or the issuer of the security instrument refuses to honor any draft by
               the city against the applicable irrevocable letter of credit or bond, the city may
               proceed to obtain compliance and abate the default by way of civil action against
               the operator, or by criminal action against the operator, or by both such methods.

               (e)

               When the well covered by said irrevocable letters of credit or bond have been properly
               abandoned in conformity with all regulations of this article, and in conformity with
               all regulations of the commission and notice to that effect has been received by the
               city, or upon receipt of a satisfactory substitute, the irrevocable letter of credit
               or bond issued in compliance with these regulations shall be terminated and cancelled.

               (Code 2008, § 154.11)"
Sec. 14-324.,Insurance.,"In addition to the bond or letter of credit required pursuant to this Code, the operator
               shall carry a policy or policies of insurance issued by an insurance company or companies
               authorized to do business in the state. In the event such insurance policies are cancelled,
               the gas-well permit shall be suspended on such date of cancellation and the operator's
               right to operate under such gas-well permit shall immediately cease until the operator
               files additional insurance as provided herein.

                  (1)

                  General requirements applicable to all policies.

                  a.

                  The city, its officials, employees, agents and officers shall be endorsed as an additional
                  insured to all policies except employer's liability coverage under the operator's
                  workers compensation policy.

                  b.

                  All policies shall be written on an occurrence basis except for environmental pollution
                  liability (seepage and pollution coverage) and excess or umbrella liability, which
                  may be on a claims-made basis.

                  c.

                  All policies shall be written by an insurer with an A-: VIII or better rating by the
                  most current version of the A M Best Key Rating Guide or with such other financially
                  sound insurance carriers acceptable to the city.

                  d.

                  Deductibles shall be listed on the certificate of insurance and shall be on a per-occurrence
                  basis, unless otherwise stipulated herein.

                  e.

                  Certificates of insurance shall be delivered to the City of Alvarado, City Secretary,
                  104 W. College, Alvarado, Texas, 76009, evidencing all the required coverage, including
                  endorsements, prior to the issuance of a gas-well permit.

                  f.

                  All policies shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation providing rights of recovery
                  in favor of the city.

                  g.

                  Any failure on part of the city to request required insurance documentation shall
                  not constitute a waiver of the insurance requirement specified herein.

                  h.

                  Each policy shall be endorsed to provide the city a minimum 30-day notice of cancellation,
                  nonrenewal, and/or material change in policy terms or coverage. A ten-day notice shall
                  be acceptable in the event of nonpayment of premium.

                  i.

                  During the term of the gas-well permit, the operator shall report, in a timely manner,
                  to the inspector any known loss occurrence which could give rise to a liability claim
                  or lawsuit or which could result in a property loss.

                  j.

                  Upon request, certified copies of all insurance policies shall be furnished to the
                  city.

                  (2)

                  Standard commercial general liability policy. This coverage must include premises, operations, blowout or explosion, products,
                  completed operations; sudden and accidental pollution, blanket contractual liability,
                  underground resources damage, broad form property damage, independent contractors
                  protective liability and personal injury. This coverage shall be a minimum combined
                  single limit of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.

                  (3)

                  Excess or umbrella liability.

                  a.

                  If the operator has a stand-alone environmental pollution liability (EPL) policy:
                  $5,000,000.00 excess.

                  b.

                  If the operator does not have a stand-alone EPL policy: $10,000,000.00 excess. Coverage
                  must include an endorsement for sudden or accidental pollution. If seepage and pollution
                  coverage is written on a claims-made basis, the operator must maintain continuous
                  coverage and purchase extended coverage period Insurance when necessary.

                  (4)

                  Environmental pollution liability coverage.

                  a.

                  The operator shall purchase and maintain in force for the duration of the gas-well
                  permit, insurance for environmental pollution liability applicable to bodily injury,
                  property damage, including loss of use of damaged property or of property that has
                  not been physically injured or destroyed; cleanup costs; and defense, including costs
                  and expenses incurred in the investigation, defense or settlement of claims; all in
                  connection with any loss arising from the insured site. Coverage shall be maintained
                  in an amount of at least $1,000,000.00 per loss, with an annual aggregate of at least
                  $10,000,000.00.

                  b.

                  Coverage shall apply to sudden and accidental pollution conditions resulting from
                  the escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids
                  or gases, waste material or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants.

                  c.

                  The operator shall maintain continuous coverage and shall purchase extended coverage
                  period insurance when necessary. The extended coverage period insurance must provide
                  that any retroactive date applicable to coverage under the policy precedes the effective
                  date of the issuance of the permit by the city.

                  (5)

                  Control of well. The policy should cover the cost of controlling a well that is out of control, re-drilling
                  or restoration expenses, seepage and pollution damage as first party recovery for
                  the operator and related expenses, including, but not limited to, loss of equipment,
                  experts, and evacuation of residents.

                  a.

                  Per occurrence/no aggregate: $5,000,000.00, if available; otherwise an aggregate of
                  $10,000,000.00.

                  b.

                  A $500,000.00 sub-limit endorsement may be added for damage to property for which
                  the operator has care, custody, and control.

                  (6)

                  Workers' Compensation and employer's liability insurance.

                  a.

                  Workers' Compensation benefits shall be the state statutory limits.

                  b.

                  The employer's liability shall be a minimum of $500,000.00 per accident.

                  c.

                  Such coverage shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of the city and provide
                  coverage in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.

                  (7)

                  Automobile liability insurance.

                  a.

                  Combined single limit of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence for bodily injury and property
                  damage.

                  b.

                  Coverage must include all owned, hired and not-owned automobiles.

                  (8)

                  Certificates of insurance.

                  a.

                  The company must be admitted or approved to do business in the state, unless the coverage
                  is written by a surplus lines insurer.

                  b.

                  The insurance set forth by the insurance company must be underwritten on forms that
                  have been approved by the state board of insurance or ISO, or an equivalent policy
                  form acceptable to the city, with the exception of environmental pollution liability
                  and control of well coverage.

                  c.

                  The policies must forth all endorsements and insurance coverage according to requirements
                  and instructions contained herein.

                  d.

                  The policies shall specifically set forth the notice of cancellation, termination,
                  or change in coverage provisions to the city. All policies shall be endorsed to read
                  ""This policy will not be cancelled or nonrenewed without 30 days' advance written
                  notice to the owner and the city except when this policy is being cancelled for nonpayment
                  of premium, in which case ten days' advance written notice is required.""

                  e.

                  Original endorsements affecting coverage required by this section shall be furnished
                  with the certificates of insurance.

               (Code 2008, § 154.12)"
Sec. 14-325.,Indemnification and express negligence provisions.,"Each gas-well permit issued by the inspector shall include the following language:

                  ""Operator does hereby expressly release and discharge, all claims, demands, actions,
                  judgments, and executions which it ever had, or now has or may have, or assigns may
                  have, or claim to have, against the City of Alvarado, and/or its departments, agents,
                  officers, servants, successors, assigns, sponsors, volunteers, or employees, created
                  by, or arising out of personal, or in any way incidental to or in connection with
                  the performance of the work performed by the operator under a gas-well permit. The
                  operator shall fully defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of Alvarado,
                  Texas, its departments, agents, officers, servants, employees, successors, assigns,
                  sponsors, or volunteers from and against each and every claim, demand, or cause of
                  action and any and all liability, damages, obligations, judgments, losses, fines,
                  penalties, costs, fees, and expenses incurred in defense of the City of Alvarado,
                  Texas, its departments, agents, officers, servants or employees, including, without
                  limitations, personal injuries and death in connection therewith which may be made
                  or asserted by operator, its agents, assigns, or any third parties on account of,
                  arising out of, or in any way incidental to or in connection with the performance
                  of the work performed by the operator under a gas-well permit. The operator agrees
                  to indemnify and hold harmless the City of Alvarado, Texas, its departments, its officers,
                  agents, servants, employees, successors, assigns, sponsors, or volunteers from any
                  liabilities or damages suffered as a result of claims, demands, costs or judgments
                  against the city, its departments, its officers, agents, servants, or employees, created
                  by, or arising out of the acts or omissions of the City of Alvarado occurring on the
                  drill site or operation site in the course and scope of inspecting and permitting
                  the gas wells including, but not limited to, claims and damages arising in whole or
                  in part from the negligence of the City of Alvarado occurring on the drill site or
                  operation site in the course and scope of inspecting and permitting the gas wells.
                  it is understood and agreed that the indemnity provided for in this section is an
                  indemnity extended by the operator to indemnify and protect the City of Alvarado,
                  Texas, and/or its departments, agents, officers, servants, or employees from the consequences
                  of the negligence of the City of Alvarado, Texas and/or its departments, agents, officers,
                  servants, or employees, whether that negligence is the sole or contributing cause
                  of the resultant injury, death, and/or damage.""

               (Code 2008, § 154.13)"
Secs. 14-326—14-353.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,ON SITE AND TECHNICAL REGULATIONS,NULL
Sec. 14-355.,Noise.,"A gas-well permit holder shall be subject to the following noise restrictions:

                  (1)

                  No drilling producing or other operations shall produce a sound level greater than
                  78 dB(A) when measured at a distance of 300 feet from the production equipment in
                  question. The noise level shall be the average of sound level meter readings taken
                  consecutively at any given time from four or more diametrically opposite positions,
                  four feet above ground level, when measured at a distance of 300 feet from the production
                  equipment. A maximum sound level of 85 dB(A) shall apply to formation fracturing when
                  measured at a distance of 300 feet from the production equipment in question.

                  (2)

                  No person shall operate or permit to be operated in connection with the operation
                  of a producing well any engine, compressor or motor-driven machinery of any type which
                  creates a sound level greater than 65dB(A) when measured at a distance of 300 feet
                  from the well site. The noise level shall be the average of sound level meter readings
                  taken consecutively at any given time from four or more diametrically opposite positions
                  measured at a distance of 300 feet from the well site.

                  (3)

                  Sound level measurements shall be made with a sound level meter conforming, at a minimum,
                  to the requirements of the American National Standards Institute.

                  (4)

                  If sound levels exceed the dB(A) levels cited in subsections (1) and (2) of this section,
                  the inspector may require sound reducing mufflers.

               (Code 2008, § 154.15)"
Sec. 26-112.,Buildings and other property.,"No person shall in any city park do or cause to be done any of the following without
               first obtaining a permit from the public works department:

                  (1)

                  Mark, deface, injure, displace, remove or tamper with any park property or any park
                  grounds.

                  (2)

                  Construct or erect any building or structure of any kind, whether permanently or temporarily.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-113.,Protection of wild animals.,"No person shall in any city park capture, attempt to capture, hunt, molest, injure,
               trap or administer or set out any trap or harmful substance for any wild or domestic
               animal, reptile, bird or fish, nor remove or have in his possession the young, eggs
               or nest of any wild animal, reptile or bird, unless such person first obtains a permit
               from the department or engages in such activities in a designated park or a designated
               area within a park where such activities have been authorized by the department.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 14-356.,Well setbacks.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful to drill any well, the center of which, at the surface of the
               ground, is located:

               (1)

               Within 25 feet from any outer boundary line;

               (2)

               Within 25 feet from any storage tank, or source of ignition;

               (3)

               Within 75 feet of any public street, road, highway or future street, right-of-way
               or property line;

               (4)

               Within 100 feet of any building accessory to, but not necessary to the operation of
               the well;

               (5)

               Within 200 feet to any freshwater well. The measurement shall be in a direct line
               from the closest well bore to the freshwater well bore; or

               (6)

               Within 600 feet from any building used, or designed and intended to be used, for human
               occupancy.

               (b)

               The distance shall be calculated from the well bore, in a straight line, without regard
               to intervening structures or objects, to the closest exterior point of any object
               listed in subsection (a) of this section.

               (c)

               The distances set out in subsection (a) of this section may be reduced at the discretion
               of the city council, but never less than 300 feet from any dwelling or any other building
               used, or designed and intended to be used, for human occupancy without the unanimous
               consent of the property owners within a 300-foot radius around said well and the affirmative
               vote of not less than three-fourths of all the members of the city council. For protection
               of the public health, safety and welfare, the city council may impose additional requirements
               for a reduction of such distance. The reduction of the distance requirement for freshwater
               wells is subject to the railroad commission regulations and any other state or federal
               requirements.

               (Code 2008, § 154.16; Ord. No. 2006-031, 7-17-2006)"
Sec. 16-62.,Power to summon witnesses.,"The fire marshal shall have the power to summon witnesses to testify relative to any
               matter which is a subject of investigation and may require the production of any document
               deemed pertinent thereto. The fire marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to administer
               oaths and affirmation to any persons appearing before him as witnesses.

               (Code 2008, § 92.05)"
Sec. 16-63.,Investigations may be private.,"All investigations held by or under the direction of the fire marshal may, at his
               discretion, be private. Persons other than those required to be present may be excluded
               from the place where such investigation is held and witnesses may be kept separate
               and apart from each other and not allowed to communicate with each other until they
               have been examined.

               (Code 2008, § 92.06)"
Sec. 14-357.,"Installation of pipelines on, under and across public property.","(a)

               The operator shall apply to the city for a license agreement for the purpose of constructing,
               laying, maintaining, operating, repairing, replacing and removing pipelines on, over,
               under, along or across the city streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other city property,
               so long as production or operations may be continued under any gas-well permit issued
               pursuant to this Code.

               (b)

               The operator shall:

               (1)

               Not interfere with or damage existing water, sewer or gas lines or the facilities
               of public utilities located on, under or across the course of such rights-of way.

               (2)

               Furnish to the inspector of the city a plat showing the location of such pipelines.

               (3)

               Construct such lines out of pipe in accordance with the city codes and regulations
               properly cased and vented if under a street.

               (4)

               Grade, level and restore such property to the same surface condition, as nearly as
               practicable, as existed when operations for the drilling of the well were first commenced.

               (c)

               No gas-well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled within any of the streets
               or alleys of the city and/or projected streets or alleys shown by the current comprehensive
               plan of the city, and no street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed
               due to any exploration, drilling or production operations, unless prior consent is
               obtained from the inspector or the city council, where required by ordinance. Where
               permitted, any consent from the inspector shall be temporary in nature and state the
               number of hours and/or days that any street or alley may be blocked, encumbered or
               closed.

               (Code 2008, § 154.17)"
Sec. 14-358.,Screening and signage.,"(a)

               Fences. Fences shall not be required on drill sites during initial drilling, completion or
               reworking operations as long as 24-hour on-site supervision is provided. Within 30
               days after production has been established, all operation sites shall be completely
               enclosed by a fence meeting the specifications of subsection (b) of this section.
               In addition to fences, a secured entrance gate shall be required. All gates shall
               be kept locked when the operator or his employees are not within the enclosure.

               (b)

               Fence specifications. Unless alternate fence material is approved by the city council, all fences shall
               be a substantial chain link of a minimum of six feet but not to exceed ten feet in
               height. The chain link shall be dark green or black steel wire with concertina wire,
               barbed wire or other security wire on the top, and properly built and thereafter maintained
               so as to ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure. Fences constructed
               within 1,000 feet of any residential building shall have slats woven through the links
               to make it sight-proof. Posts and rails shall be standard black or dark green welded
               pipe and shall be set in concrete and shall be imbedded into the ground to a depth
               sufficient to maintain the stability of the fence. All fences used to enclose all
               or in part any drilling or production site shall be constructed with standard engineering
               practices and be of a design compatible with the facilities, buildings and structures
               on and adjacent to the site.

               (c)

               Gate specifications. All fences shall be equipped with at least one gate. The gate shall meet the following
               specifications:

               (1)

               Each gate shall not be less than 12 feet wide and be composed of two gate doors, each
               of which is not less than six feet wide, or one sliding gate door not less than 12
               feet wide. If two gate doors are used, gates shall latch and lock in the center of
               the span;

               (2)

               The gates shall be of black or dark green chain link construction that meets the applicable
               specifications, or of other approved material that, for safety reasons, shall be at
               least as secure as a chain link fence;

               (3)

               The gates shall be provided with a catch and locking attachment device for a padlock,
               and shall be kept locked except when being used for access to the site; and

               (4)

               The operator must provide the city fire chief with a Knox padlock or Knox box with
               a key to access the well site to be used only in an emergency.

               (d)

               Signs.

               (1)

               A sign shall be immediately and prominently displayed at the gate on the temporary
               and permanent site fencing erected. Such sign shall be durable material, maintained
               in good condition and, unless otherwise required by the commission, shall have a surface
               area of not less than two square feet nor more than four square feet and shall be
               lettered with the following:

               a.

               Well name and number;

               b.

               Name of operator;

               c.

               The emergency 911 number; and

               d.

               Telephone numbers of two persons responsible for the well who may be contacted in
               case of emergency.

               (2)

               Permanent weatherproof signs reading ""Danger No Smoking Allowed"" shall be posted immediately
               upon completion of the well site fencing at the entrance of each well site and tank
               battery or in any other location approved or designated by the fire chief of the city.
               Sign lettering shall be four inches in height and shall be red on a white background
               or white on a red background. Each sign shall include the emergency notification numbers
               of the fire department and the operator, well and lease designations required by the
               commission.

               (Code 2008, § 154.18; Ord. No. 2008-037, § 1, 8-26-2008;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-011, § 3, 5-16-2016
                  
               )"
DIVISION 5.,SPEED LIMITS,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Speed restrictions, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 545.351 et seq.; authority of
               municipality to alter speed limits, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 545.356."
Secs. 38-131—38-158.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 6.,ONE-WAY STREETS,NULL
Sec. 14-359.,Landscaping.,"(a)

               Landscaping and irrigation shall be required along all street frontages of the well
               site with suitable screening shrubs that complement the architectural character of
               the surrounding neighborhood. Screening shrubs shall be installed completely around
               the well site and all required fences and be sufficient to screen from view the structures
               sought to be screened. Screening shrubs shall be a minimum of three feet in height
               at planting, have the potential to grow to a mature height of a minimum of six feet
               and must have an installed irrigation system that provides total water coverage to
               all plant materials. The vegetation shall be kept in an attractive state and in good
               condition at all times by the applicant or operator.

               (b)

               All landscape and irrigation plans shall be submitted concurrently with the gas-well
               permit application, to the city council for approval.

               (c)

               Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, the operator may petition the city
               council to toll the required landscaping installation until such time as the council,
               in its sole discretion, after written notice to the operator and a public meeting,
               may determine that the required landscaping installation is necessary due to development
               around the drill site, change in circumstances, or other factors which the council
               deems appropriate. The failure of the operator to install the required landscaping
               in compliance with this section may result in the revocation of the gas-well permit
               in accordance with section 14-301 hereof; or in the alternative, the city may elect to draw from the required bond
               or letter of credit to install or direct the installation of the required landscaping.

               (Code 2008, § 154.19)"
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 18-1.,Findings of fact.,"(a)

               The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation, which results
               in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
               governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
               and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.

               (b)

               These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
               which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood
               hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they
               are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.

               (Code 2008, § 151.01; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 14-360.,Cleanup and maintenance.,"(a)

               Cleanup after well servicing. After the well has been completed or plugged and abandoned, the operator shall clean
               the drill site or operation site, complete restoration activities and repair all damage
               to public property caused by such operations within 60 days.

               (b)

               Clean-up after spills, leaks and malfunctions. After any spill, leak or malfunction, the operator shall remove or cause to be removed
               to the satisfaction of the fire department chief and the inspector all waste materials
               from any public or private property affected by such spill, leak or malfunction. Clean-up
               operations must begin immediately. If the owner fails to begin site clean-up within
               24 hours, the city shall have the right to contact the commission in order to facilitate
               the removal of all waste materials from the property affected by such spill, leak
               or malfunction.

               (c)

               Free from debris. The property on which a well site is located shall at all times be kept free of debris,
               pools of water or other liquids, contaminated soil, weeds, brush, trash or other waste
               material within a radius of 100 feet around any separators, tanks and producing wells.
               Burial of debris will not be allowed.

               (d)

               Painting. All production equipment shall be painted and maintained at all times, including
               wellheads, pumping units, tanks, and buildings or structures. When requiring painting
               of such facilities, the inspector shall consider the deterioration of the quality
               of the material of which such facility or structure is constructed, the degree of
               rust, and its appearance. Paint shall be of a neutral color, compatible with surrounding
               uses. Neutral colors shall include sand, gray and unobtrusive shades of green, blue
               and brown, or other neutral colors approved by the inspector.

               (e)

               Blowouts. In the event of the loss of control of any well, the operator shall immediately take
               all reasonable steps to regain control regardless of any other provision of this Code
               and shall notify the inspector as soon as practicable. The inspector shall certify
               in writing, briefly describing the same, to the city manager. If the inspector, in
               his opinion, believes that danger to persons and property exists because of such loss
               of well control and that the operator is not taking or is unable to take all reasonable
               and necessary steps to regain control of such well, the inspector may then employ
               any well control expert or other contractors or suppliers of special services, or
               may incur any other expenses for labor and material which the inspector deems necessary
               to regain control of such well. The city shall then have a valid lien against the
               interest in the well of all working interest owners to secure payment of any expenditure
               made by the city pursuant to such action of the inspector in gaining control of said
               well.

               (Code 2008, § 154.20)"
Sec. 14-361.,Plugged and abandoned wells.,"(a)

               Surface requirements for plugged and abandoned well. Whenever abandonment occurs pursuant to the requirements of the commission, the operator
               so abandoning shall be responsible for the restoration of the well site to its original
               condition as nearly as practicable, in conformity with the regulations of this article.

               (b)

               Approval after abandonment. Abandonment shall be approved by the inspector after restoration of the drill site
               has been accomplished in conformity with the following requirements at the discretion
               of the inspector:

               (1)

               The derrick and all appurtenant equipment thereto shall be removed from drill site;

               (2)

               All tanks, towers, and other surface installations shall be removed from the drill
               site;

               (3)

               All concrete foundations, plumbing, wood, guy anchors and other foreign materials
               regardless of depth, except surface casing, shall be removed from the site, unless
               otherwise directed by the commission;

               (4)

               All holes and depressions shall be filled with clean, compactable soil;

               (5)

               All waste, refuse or waste material shall be removed from the drill site; and

               (6)

               During abandonment, the operator shall comply with all applicable sections in this
               article.

               (7)

               A permanent abandonment marker pipe, with the well identity and location permanently
               inscribed, shall be welded to the casing and shall be at least four inches in diameter
               with a length of four feet visible above the ground level.

               (c)

               Abandoned well requirement. The operator shall furnish the following at the discretion of the inspector:

               (1)

               A copy of the approval of the commission confirming compliance with all abandonment
               proceedings under the state law; and

               (2)

               A notice of intention to abandon under the provisions of this section and stating
               the date such work will be commenced. Abandonment may then be commenced on or subsequent
               to the date so stated.

               (d)

               Abandonment requirements prior to new construction. All abandoned or deserted wells or drill sites shall meet the most current abandonment
               requirements of the commission prior to the issuance of any building permit for development
               of the property. No structure shall be built over an abandoned well.

               (Code 2008, § 154.21;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-011, § 4, 5-16-2016
                  
               )

            State Law reference— 
               Abandoned wells, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code ch. 89; duty to plug wells, V.T.C.A.,
               Natural Resources Code § 89.011 et seq."
Secs. 14-362—14-399.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VI.,GREASE TRAP SERVICES,NULL
Sec. 14-400.,Registration required.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person collects or transports grease trap waste
               without registering the service with the city. Registration shall be on forms provided
               by the city and shall, at a minimum, include:

               (1)

               A copy of the applicant's current registration issued by the state commission on environmental
               quality, pursuant to 30 TAC § 312.142;

               (2)

               The business name, telephone number, and address of applicant; and

               (3)

               A registration fee in the amount of $100.00.

               (b)

               The registration requirements of this section are hereby declared to be necessary
               to protect the public health of the community and are hereby made applicable to all
               persons who currently collect or transport grease trap waste in the city. All persons
               who currently collect or transport grease trap waste within the city shall have 30
               days from the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived to
               register with the city, in accordance with this section.

               (Ord. No. 2013-037, § 1, 8-19-2013; Ord. No. 2013-040, § 1, 9-16-2013)"
Chapter 16,FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Municipal fire protection, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 342; safety, V.T.C.A.,
               Health and Safety Code ch. 751 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 16-1.,Fire lines.,"It shall be the duty of the fire chief or his designee to establish fire lines during
               any fire when, in his judgment, it becomes necessary or advisable, and to prohibit
               anyone from going within such fire lines except as authorized by some member of the
               fire or police department. When such fire lines are established, all persons other
               than fire and police department personnel, shall remain on the outside of such lines,
               except as authorized pursuant to this section.

               (Code 2008, § 92.34; Ord. No. 2001-041, 8-27-2001)"
Sec. 16-2.,Obstructing fire station.,"It shall be unlawful for anyone to obstruct in any manner the access way to and from
               any fire station.

               (Code 2008, § 92.35)"
Sec. 16-3.,Liability of firemen for property damage.,"No volunteer fireman or volunteer fire department in this state shall be liable to
               any person for any damage done to his property resulting from the volunteer fireman's
               or volunteer fire department's reasonable and necessary action in fighting or extinguishing
               any fire on the property.

               (Code 2008, § 92.38)"
Sec. 16-4.,Arson reward.,"The city will pay out of the general fund of the city the sum of $250.00 as a reward
               to any person giving information or otherwise causing the arrest and conviction of
               any person found guilty of committing the crime of arson within the city limits. The
               city council shall be the sole and exclusive judge in determining whether or not a
               person is entitled to such reward and in determining the proration if more than one
               person is entitled to such reward. The decision rendered by the city council shall
               be final.

               (Code 2008, § 92.80)

            State Law reference— 
               Arson generally, V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 28.02; crime stoppers, V.T.C.A., Government
               Code ch. 414."
Secs. 16-5—16-26.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,FIRE DEPARTMENT,NULL
Sec. 16-27.,Authority to create.,"The city council may in its discretion create a fire department, incur all lawful
               debts, and contribute funds for the maintenance of a fire department. Such department
               may be volunteer, paid, or both.

               (Code 2008, § 92.60)"
Sec. 16-28.,Retirement for firemen.,"The city has adopted before October 28, 1977, the provisions of V.T.C.S., art. 6248.3,
               exempting the city from the provisions of S.B. 411 J, Texas Laws, 1977, ch. 269, p.
               710.

               (Code 2008, § 92.61)"
Secs. 16-29—16-59.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,FIRE MARSHAL,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               State fire marshal, V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 417; warrants for fire marshals,
               Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. art. 18.05."
Sec. 16-60.,Duty to investigate fires.,"The fire marshal shall investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire
               occurring within the city by which property has been destroyed or damaged. Such investigation
               shall be commenced within 24 hours, not including Sunday, of the occurrence of such
               fire.

               (Code 2008, § 92.03)"
Sec. 16-61.,Authority to take testimony.,"When in his opinion further investigation is necessary, the fire marshal shall take
               or cause to be taken the testimony, on oath, of all persons thought to be cognizant
               of any facts or to have knowledge relative to the matter under investigation and shall
               cause the same to be reduced to writing.

               (Code 2008, § 92.04)"
Sec. 16-64.,Filing criminal charges.,"If the fire marshal shall be of the opinion that there is evidence sufficient to charge
               any person with the crime of arson, or with the attempt to commit the crime of arson,
               or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal conduct in connection with any fire, he shall
               cause such person to be lawfully arrested and charged with such offense, and shall
               furnish to the proper prosecuting attorney all such evidence, together with the names
               of witnesses and all the information obtained by him, including a copy of all pertinent
               and material testimony taken in the case.

               (Code 2008, § 92.07)"
Sec. 16-65.,Refusal to provide testimony or evidence unlawful.,"Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or who disobeys
               any lawful order of the fire marshal or who fails or refuses to produce any document
               touching any matter under examination, or who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct
               during any of the proceedings of the fire marshal in the matter of such investigation
               or inquiry, after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under
               investigation, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. It shall be the duty of the
               fire marshal to cause all such offenders to be prosecuted.

               (Code 2008, § 92.08)"
Sec. 16-66.,Authority to enter buildings where fire occurred.,"When necessary in the performance of his duties, the fire marshal shall have the authority
               to enter upon and examine any building or premises where any fire has occurred, and
               other buildings and premises adjoining or near the same, which authority shall be
               exercised only with reason and good discretion.

               (Code 2008, § 92.09)"
Sec. 18-7.,Establishment of development permit.,"A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions
               of this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 151.12; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-8.,Compliance.,"No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed
               without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.

               (Code 2008, § 151.13; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-9.,Abrogation and greater restrictions.,"This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
               covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance,
               easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the
               more stringent restrictions shall prevail.

               (Code 2008, § 151.14; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 16-67.,Inspections generally.,"The fire marshal shall have the right at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of
               examination, to enter into and upon all buildings and premises within the city. It
               shall be his duty to enter upon and make or cause to be entered upon and made a thorough
               examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public buildings together with the
               premises belonging thereto. Whenever he shall find any building or other structure
               which is especially liable to fire and which is so situated as to endanger other buildings
               or property, or so occupied that the fire would endanger other persons or property
               therein, and whenever he shall find an improper or dangerous arrangement of stoves,
               ranges, furnaces, or other heating appliances of any kind whatsoever, including chimneys,
               flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, or a dangerous arrangement of
               lighting devices or electrical wiring or a dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives,
               compounds, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products,
               ashes, combustible, inflammable refuse materials, wastepaper, rags, or other conditions
               which may be dangerous in character or liable to cause or promote fire or create conditions
               dangerous to firemen combatting a fire or to occupants, he shall order the same to
               be removed or remedied, and such order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner
               or occupant of the building or premises. If said owner or occupant deems himself aggrieved
               by such order he may, within five days, appeal such order to the mayor, who shall
               investigate the cause of the complaint and, unless such order is revoked by the mayor,
               such order shall remain in force and be forthwith complied with by said owner or occupant.
               Any owner or occupant who fails to comply with such order within a ten-day period
               from the date of such notice shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

               (Code 2008, § 92.10)"
Sec. 16-68.,Fire records to be kept.,"The fire marshal shall keep in his office a record of all fires, together with all
               facts, statistics and circumstances, including the origin of the fires and the amounts
               of the loss, which may be determined by the investigation required by this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 92.11)"
Sec. 16-69.,Monthly reports to state fire marshal.,"At the end of each month, the fire marshal shall report to the state fire marshal
               all existing hazardous conditions together with a separate report on each fire in
               the city during the month.

               (Code 2008, § 92.12)"
Sec. 16-70.,Inspectors.,"The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire department as
               inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of the fire department
               shall recommend to the city council the employment of technical inspectors.

               (Code 2008, § 92.13)"
Sec. 16-97.,International Fire Code adopted.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Fire Code is hereby adopted as the official
               fire code of the city, and is fully incorporated by reference as though copied into
               this article in its entirety. The material contained in such code shall not be included
               in the formal municipal codification of ordinances but shall be maintained as a public
               record in the office of the city secretary and will be available for public inspection
               and copying during regular business hours.

               Appendixes B, C, D, E, F, G, H and I of the 2012 International Fire Code are hereby
               adopted and incorporated herein by reference the same as if set forth at length.

               (Code 2008, §§ 92.20, 150.60; Ord. No. 2000-004, 10-25-1999; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005;
               Ord. No. 2007-18, 7-16-2007; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 11, 6-15-2009; Ord. No. 2011-046,
               § 1, 11-21-2011; Ord. No. 2013-027, § 8, 6-17-2013;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-013, § 1, 5-19-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 16-98.,Local amendments to International Fire Code.,"The 2012 Edition of the International Fire Code, as adopted herein is hereby amended
               by adoption of those local amendments shown on exhibit H on file in the office of
               the city secretary.

               Appendixes B, C, D, E, F, G, H and I of the 2012 International Fire Code are hereby
               adopted and incorporated herein by reference the same as if set forth at length.

               (Code 2008, §§ 92.20, 150.60; Ord. No. 2000-004, 10-25-1999; Ord. No. 2006-010, 11-21-2005;
               Ord. No. 2007-18, 7-16-2007; Ord. No. 2009-016, § 12, 6-15-2009; Ord. No. 2011-046,
               § 2, 11-21-2011; Ord. No. 2013-027, § 8, 6-17-2013;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-013, § 1, 5-19-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 16-99.,Additional local amendments contemplated.,"The city may from time to time determine that additional local modifications to the
               codes adopted herein are necessary and appropriate to meet the unique building needs
               of the city. To effectuate modifications, the city council may enact individual ordinances
               amending the ordinance from which this article is derived fully setting forth the
               change to be made in the specific code. Such subsequent amendments shall be consolidated
               as an exhibit to the ordinance from which this article is derived, and shall be maintained
               as a public record in the office of the city secretary.

               (Ord. No. 2009-016, § 14, 6-15-2009)"
Sec. 16-100.,Permits and fees.,"The codes adopted herein provide for the issuance of certain permits and the collection
               of fees therefor. The fees shall be as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (Ord. No. 2009-016, § 15, 6-15-2009)"
Sec. 16-104.,Modifications to code.,"The fire chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the International
               Fire Code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his
               duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties to carrying out the strict
               letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public
               safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification
               when granted or allowed and the decision of the fire chief thereon shall be submitted
               to the city secretary and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.

               (Code 2008, § 92.24)"
Sec. 16-105.,Appeals; time limit.,"(a)

               Whenever the fire chief or authorized representative shall reject or refuse to approve
               the mode or manner of fire prevention or fire safety proposed to be followed, or materials
               to be used in the erection or alteration of a building or structure, or when it is
               claimed that the provisions of this Code do not apply or that an equally good or more
               desirable form of fire prevention or fire safety can by employed in any specific case,
               or when it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Code or any of the
               regulations thereunder have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the owner of
               such building or structure, or duly authorized agent, may appeal the decision of the
               fire chief or authorized representative to the board. Notice of appeal shall be made
               in writing and filed within 30 days after the decision is rendered by the fire chief
               or authorized representative. An administrative fee as currently established or as
               hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council shall accompany such notice of
               appeal.

               (b)

               In case of a condition, which, in the opinion of the fire chief or authorized representative,
               is unsafe or dangerous, the fire chief or authorized representative may limit the
               time for such appeal to a shorter period. Nothing in this section shall act to limit
               the ability of the fire chief to exercise powers granted in other sections of this
               Code to respond to immediate hazards and emergencies. Initiating work, or progressing
               with that portion of work which is the particular issue on appeal or progressing with
               work which would cover the matter on appeal, shall void such appeal.

               (Code 2008, § 92.29)"
ARTICLE VI.,OUTDOOR BURNING,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Outdoor burning of waste and combustible material, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code
               § 382.018; prescribed burning, V.T.C.A., Natural Resources Code ch. 153."
Sec. 16-106.,Requirements for new and replacement fire hydrants.,"All new and replaced fire hydrants installed in the city shall be equipped with a
               four-inch STORZ adaptor with chain and cap. Appendix C, ""Fire Hydrants Locations and
               Distribution,"" Section 111, ""General,"" of the 2012 International Fire Code, previously
               adopted by the city, which provides, ""Fire Hydrant shall be provided in accordance
               with this appendix for the protection of buildings, or portions of buildings, hereafter
               constructed,"" shall be amended by the addition of the following: ""All fire hydrants
               shall have two (2) national thread standard hose outlets of two and one half (2 ½)
               inches and one (1) four and one half (4 ½) inch in diameter with a four (4) inch STORZ
               adaptor with chain and cap."" This addition shall also apply to any successor fire
               codes adopted by the city unless and until otherwise provided.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-007, § 1, 4-18-2016
                  
               )"
Secs. 16-107—16-123.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,FIREWORKS,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority of City to prohibit or regulate fireworks, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code
               §§ 342.003(8), 217.003; regulation of fireworks and fireworks displays, V.T.C.A.,
               Occupations Code ch. 2154."
Sec. 16-124.,Selling or shooting fireworks prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or dispose of fireworks within the corporate
               limits of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 92.70)"
Sec. 16-125.,Discharging of fireworks.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire or in any way set off or cause
               to be set off, firecrackers, Roman candles, torpedoes, sky rockets, or other forms
               of fireworks commonly used for pleasure or celebrations in, upon, or along the public
               streets and alleys of the city or in and upon any vacant lot without first having
               obtained the written consent of the owner of such vacant lot.

               (Code 2008, § 92.71)"
Sec. 16-126.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Fireworks means and includes any firecrackers, cannon crackers, skyrockets, torpedoes, Roman
               candles, sparklers, squibs, fire balloons, star shells, gerbs, or any other substance
               in whatever combination by any designated name intended for use in obtaining visible
               or audible pyrotechnic display, and such term shall include all articles or substances
               within the commonly accepted meaning of fireworks, whether herein specifically designated
               and defined or not.

               (Code 2008, § 92.72)"
Sec. 16-127.,Public displays.,"Fireworks, as defined in section 16-126, may be used, shot, ignited, and displayed in open lots or as a part of the conduct
               of a play, circus, or similar entertainment by public authorities or by private persons
               or organizations that have been granted a permit for such display by the city fire
               marshal. Each application for such a permit shall be referred to the city fire marshal
               who shall inspect said location. If the fire marshal shall report that the location
               is unobjectionable relative to fire hazards and safety, he may issue said permit upon
               the receipt of a permit fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution
               of the city council from time to time. Such permit may be granted for a period not
               to exceed six days, and shall specify the name and address of the applicant, or the
               principal officers thereof if a corporation or association; the location where said
               fireworks are to be used; the exact time when such fireworks are to be used and the
               nature of the occasion; and a list of the fireworks to be used. A copy of each permit
               shall be filed in the office of the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 92.73)"
Sec. 16-128.,Indemnity bond may be required.,"The city fire marshal may require an indemnity bond in the sum as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time with good
               and sufficient sureties for payment of all claims that may arise by reason of injuries
               to persons or property from the handling, use or discharge of fireworks under such
               permit. Such bond will be taken in the name of the city and any person injured may
               bring an action on said bond in his own name to recover any damage sustained to person
               or property.

               (Code 2008, § 92.74)"
Sec. 16-129.,Storage near gasoline or other volatile liquids prohibited.,"Fireworks to be used under such a permit shall not be stored, kept, or discharged
               within 300 feet of any gasoline pump, gasoline filling station or gasoline bulk station,
               or any structures other than motor vehicles in which gasoline or other volatile liquids
               are kept in quantities in excess of one gallon.

               (Code 2008, § 92.75)"
Sec. 16-130.,Exemptions.,"This chapter shall not apply to articles used by railroads or transportation companies
               nor to high explosives used for blasting or similar purposes when used solely for
               the necessary conduct of construction, transportation, manufacturing or industry,
               nor to the conduct of the affairs of the army, navy, or militia.

               (Code 2008, § 92.76)"
Secs. 16-131—16-158.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 16-159.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Garbage includes all animal or vegetable matter, such as waste material and refuse from kitchens,
               residences, grocery stores, butcher shops, hotels, roominghouses, boardinghouses,
               restaurants, cafes, and other deleterious substances.

               Trash means rubbish such as feathers, coffee grounds, ashes, tin cans, paper, boxes, glass,
               grass, shrubs, yard cleanings, yard clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, and similar
               matter.

               (Code 2008, § 92.90)"
Sec. 16-160.,Burning prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any trash, garbage, or weeds at any place
               within the corporate limits, except in an emergency with the approval and in the presence
               of the fire marshal or the chief of the fire department.

               (Code 2008, § 92.91)"
Secs. 16-161—16-188.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 20-23.,Qualifications.,"All police officers shall meet the minimum standards for licensing as a peace officer
               as established by the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Officer Standards and Education
               and have a current and valid peace officer license at the time of appointment. All
               police officers shall retain such license during their employment as a police officer
               with the city and will be subject to discharge if such license is suspended, revoked,
               or becomes invalid for any reason. In addition, all police officers must have a valid
               state vehicle operator's license and must be insurable as a vehicle driver by the
               city's automobile insurance carrier.

               (Code 2008, § 32.03)

            State Law reference— 
               Law enforcement license requirements, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code § 1701.301 et seq.;
               driver's licenses, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 521."
Sec. 40-101.,Interconnection with other suppliers.,"No physical connection between the distribution system of a public drinking water
               supply and that of any other water supply shall be permitted, unless the other water
               supply is of a safe, sanitary quality and the interconnection is approved by the executive
               director.

               (Code 2008, § 51.87; Ord. No. 2001-022, 4-9-2001)"
Sec. 16-190.,Sale of flammable liquid in quantities of five gallons or less regulated.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or dispose of any flammable liquid in
               a container of five gallons or less in capacity, unless such container meets the requirements
               of this section.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or tenant of any building or structure
               of any kind, where people are housed as a home, apartment, boardinghouse, or any other
               type of occupancy of any kind or character, whether they be housed or employed therein,
               to keep any flammable liquid in, upon, or about such premises in quantities of five
               gallons or under, unless such flammable liquid is kept in a container meeting the
               requirements of this section.

               (c)

               The container required by this section shall be an airtight container of five gallons
               capacity or under, constructed of metal or the equivalent thereof, other than glass
               or materials that are breakable, properly equipped and fitted with a metal lid or
               the equivalent thereof, in such a manner and to the extent that the container will
               be airtight and will not leak, break or erupt, if dropped or turned over, and the
               contents will not ignite when exposed to open flame or ignition, and so that neither
               the liquid nor the vapor will escape from it at ordinary temperatures. Such container
               shall be so designed and cared for that persons who are unaware of the danger of flammable
               liquids will not have easy access to the contents of the container and will not be
               exposed to the danger of the liquid or its vapor.

               (Code 2008, § 92.101)"
Sec. 16-191.,Tanks containing flammable liquids.,"The storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited within
               the city.

               (Code 2008, § 92.102)"
Sec. 16-192.,Storage of liquefied petroleum gas.,"It shall be unlawful to store liquefied petroleum gas within the corporate limits
               of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 92.103)"
Secs. 16-193—16-222.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VIII.,SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES,"Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Texas Clean Air Act, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 382; smoking tobacco, V.T.C.A.,
               Penal Code § 48.01."
Sec. 16-223.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Bar means any commercial establishment that derives 51 percent or more of its annual
               gross sales receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages as defined by the state
               alcoholic beverage code and has a valid on-premises consumption license issued by
               the state alcoholic beverage commission or a portion of a commercial/food establishment
               that is physically separated from the rest of the establishment by an impermeable
               barrier exclusive of appropriate openings for ingress and egress and that portion
               of the establishment is independently ventilated and that portion of the establishment
               derives 51 percent or more of its annual gross sales receipts from the sale of alcoholic
               beverages as defined by the state alcoholic beverage code and has a valid on-premises
               consumption license issued by the state alcoholic beverage commission.

               Director means the director of the department designated by the city manager to enforce and
               administer this article or the director's designated representative.

               Employee means any person who is employed by any employer from direct or indirect monetary
               wages, commissions or profit, or is in a position that would lead one to believe that
               such person is so employed.

               Employer means any person, partnership, corporation, association, or other entity that employs
               one or more persons.

               Enclosed means closed in by a roof and walls with appropriate openings for ingress and egress.

               Food establishment means any operation engaged in the preparation or sale of prepared ready-to-eat food,
               if such operation accounts for more than 51 percent of annual gross sales receipts.
               The term ""food establishment"" does not include an outdoor patio.

               Governmental entity means a state, a municipality, county, school district, or appraisal district.

               Health care facility means any hospital or institution that provides medical or surgical services for
               patients.

               Independently ventilated means that the heating, ventilation and air conditioning system for a bar area does
               not allow for the mixing of air from the bar area to a public area or public place
               served by the same ventilation system or another ventilation system.

               Movie theater means any establishment engaged in the business of exhibiting motion pictures to
               public. The same are regulated hereby even if meeting the definition of private club.

               Outdoors means any area that is not enclosed.

               Private club means any building, premises or portion thereof which is wholly owned or leased from
               other than a governmental entity by a nonprofit corporation organized under chapter
               501 (c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

               Private office is an individual's office from which the public is not barred but to which the public
               goes primarily by invitation or appointment. Such office shall be an office in which
               there are no employees.

               Public place means any enclosed area that is open to or is used by the general public, or that
               is a place of employment and includes, but is not limited to: retail stores, grocery
               stores, offices, professional, commercial or financial establishments, food establishments,
               movie theaters, public and private institutions of education, health care facilities,
               nursing and convalescent homes, residential treatment facilities, buildings owned
               or occupied by political subdivisions and public restrooms. The term ""public place""
               does not include a private residence, bar, tobacco shop, hotel and motel rooms that
               are rented to guests, private clubs or outdoors or private offices. Any public places
               regulated by other statutes or other governmental administrative rules which conflict
               with or which preempt local regulation are exempt from the provisions hereof to the
               extent of such conflict or preemption.

               Smoke or smoking means the carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind,
               or any other lighted smoking material, equipment or device, and the lighting, emitting
               or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar, or cigarette of any kind.

               Tobacco means any tobacco, cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, snuff or any
               other form of tobacco, which may be utilized for smoking, chewing, inhalation or other
               means of ingestion or absorption.

               Tobacco shop means any commercial establishment that derives 51 percent of its annual gross receipts
               from the sale of tobacco and tobacco accessories.

               (Code 2008, § 92.120)"
Sec. 16-224.,Smoking prohibited in public places; exceptions.,"(a)

               Smoking is hereby prohibited in all public places within the city limits.

               (b)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this article that the person was
               smoking in a bar, tobacco shop, a rented hotel or motel room of any kind, private
               clubs, outdoors, or in a place where these regulations are in conflict with or preempted
               by other law as defined above.

               (c)

               The provisions of this article shall not apply to any public place in existence on
               the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, including,
               but not limited to the following public places: Alvarado House, Frank's Place and
               Ole's Cafe, unless and until such public place undergoes a change in ownership.

               (Code 2008, § 92.121)"
Sec. 16-225.,Signs and receptacles.,"(a)

               The owner or other person having authority to manage and/or control any area designated
               as a public place, pursuant to this article, shall post or cause to be posted and
               visibly displayed, and shall maintain ""No Smoking"" signs in a form approved by the
               director, in conspicuous locations within such public place. Such signs shall clearly
               and conspicuously recite the phrase ""No Smoking"" in the English and Spanish language
               and/or use the international no-smoking symbol.

               (b)

               The owner or other person having authority to manage and/or control any area designed
               as a public place pursuant to this article shall cause to be placed a receptacle for
               smoking materials which is approved by the fire marshal of the city outdoors at each
               entrance to all public places as defined herein.

               (Code 2008, § 92.122)"
Sec. 16-226.,Reporting violations.,"(a)

               This article requires that the owner, operator, employer, manager or any employee
               enforce the regulations set forth in this article within any public place under his
               care, custody or control by verbally instructing any person violating this article
               to cease smoking and/or cease the use of tobacco while occupying such public place.

               (b)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this article that the owner, operator,
               employer, manager or employee verbally instructed the person smoking and/or using
               tobacco to cease such use while occupying the public place under the care, custody,
               or control of such owner, operator, employer, manager, or employee.

               (Code 2008, § 92.123; Ord. No. 2007-20, 7-8-2007)"
Chapter 18,FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Soil and water conservation, V.T.C.A., Agriculture Code ch. 201; emergency management,
               V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 418; city-county water control, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code §§ 411.002, 411.003; Flood Control and Insurance Act, V.T.C.A., Water Code §
               16.311 et seq.; local rules, V.T.C.A., Water Code § 16.318."
Sec. 18-2.,Statement of purpose.,"It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general
               welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific
               areas by provisions designed to:

                  (1)

                  Protect human life and health;

                  (2)

                  Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;

                  (3)

                  Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
                  undertaken at the expense of the general public;

                  (4)

                  Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

                  (5)

                  Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
                  telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;

                  (6)

                  Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of
                  flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and

                  (7)

                  Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.

               (Code 2008, § 151.02; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-3.,Methods of reducing flood losses.,"In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:

                  (1)

                  Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times
                  of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;

                  (2)

                  Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which serve such uses,
                  be protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;

                  (3)

                  Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
                  barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;

                  (4)

                  Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may increase flood
                  damage;

                  (5)

                  Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert
                  flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.

               (Code 2008, § 151.03; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-4.,Definitions.,"Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
               interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter
               its most reasonable application.

               Alluvial fan flooding means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform which
               originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes
               of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

               Apex means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of
               the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding
               can occur.

               Appurtenant structure means a structure which is on the same parcel of property as the principal structure
               to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure

               Area of future conditions flood hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the one-percent-annual chance (100-year)
               flood based on future conditions hydrology.

               Area of shallow flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a community's flood insurance
               rate map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
               depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the
               path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
               is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

               Area of special flood hazard means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater
               chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as zone A on the
               flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed rate-making has been completed in
               preparation for publication of the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO,
               AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.

               Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
               year.

               Base flood elevation (BFE) means the elevation shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and found in the
               accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30,
               or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has
               a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year — also
               called the base flood.

               Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on
               all sides.

               Breakaway wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
               through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces,
               without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation
               system.

               Critical feature means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system, without
               which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.

               Development means any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
               limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
               excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.

               Elevated building means, for insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which has its lowest elevated
               floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings,
               or columns.

               Existing construction means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the ""start of construction""
               commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs
               effective before that date. ""Existing construction"" may also be referred to as ""existing
               structures.""

               Existing manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
               for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including,
               at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
               final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective
               date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

               Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
               the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation
               of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring
               of concrete pads).

               Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:

                  (1)

                  The overflow of inland or tidal waters.

                  (2)

                  The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.

               Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
               corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination
               of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.

               Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) means an official map of a community, issued by the administrator, where the boundaries
               of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards
               have been designated as zones A, M, and/or E.

               Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on which the federal emergency management agency
               has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable
               to the community.

               Flood insurance study (FIS). See flood elevation study.

               Floodplain or flood-prone area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
               definition of flooding).

               Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
               reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
               flood control works and floodplain management regulations.

               Floodplain management regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
               special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and
               erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes
               such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
               for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.

               Flood protection system means those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated,
               and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in order
               to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a ""special flood hazard""
               and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
               hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
               modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.

               Flood proofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments
               to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
               property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

               Floodway. See regulatory floodway.

               Functionally dependent use means a use, which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried
               out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port facilities
               that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship
               building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related
               manufacturing facilities.

               Highest adjacent grade means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next
               to the proposed walls of a structure.

               Historic structure means any structure that is:

                  (1)

                  Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained
                  by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
                  Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;

                  (2)

                  Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing
                  to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily
                  determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

                  (3)

                  Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic
                  preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of Interior; or

                  (4)

                  Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities with historic
                  preservation programs that have been certified either:

                  a.

                  By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or;

                  b.

                  Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.

               Levee means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed
               in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the
               flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.

               Levee system means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
               structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
               in accordance with sound engineering practices.

               Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
               or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access
               or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest
               floor; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
               violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the
               national flood insurance program regulations.

               Manufactured home means a structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
               chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected
               to the required utilities. The term ""manufactured home"" does not include a ""recreational
               vehicle"".

               Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured
               home lots for rent or sale.

               Mean sea level means, for purposes of the national flood insurance program, the national geodetic
               vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown
               on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.

               New construction means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for which the ""start
               of construction"" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after
               December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to
               such structures. For floodplain management purposes, ""new construction"" means structures
               for which the ""start of construction"" commenced on or after the effective date of
               a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
               improvements to such structures.

               New manufactured home park or subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
               for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
               at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
               final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
               date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

               Recreational vehicle means a vehicle which is:

                  (1)

                  Built on a single chassis;

                  (2)

                  Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;

                  (3)

                  Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and

                  (4)

                  Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters
                  for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

               Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream,
               brook, etc.

               Special flood hazard area. See area of special flood hazard.

               Start of construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the Coastal Barrier
               Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement and means the date
               the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
               reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within
               180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
               permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
               the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage
               of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
               construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling;
               nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
               excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary
               forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
               such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
               For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration
               of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
               that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

               Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, including
               a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured
               home.

               Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring
               the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of
               the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

               Substantial improvement means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure
               before ""start of construction"" of the improvement. This term includes structures,
               which have incurred ""substantial damage"", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
               The term does not, however, include either:

                  (1)

                  Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state
                  or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified
                  by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure
                  safe living conditions or

                  (2)

                  Any alteration of a ""historic structure"", provided that the alteration will not preclude
                  the structure's continued designation as a ""historic structure.""

               Variance means a grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain management
               regulation. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood insurance
               program regulations.)

               Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
               the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development
               without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
               required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5)
               is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.

               Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929
               (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies
               in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.

               (Code 2008, § 151.04; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-5.,Lands to which this chapter applies.,"This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the jurisdiction
               of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 151.10; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-11.,Warning and disclaimer of liability.,"The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
               regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On
               rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased
               by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas
               of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding
               or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
               or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
               on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.

               (Code 2008, § 151.16; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-12.,Areas designated as 100-year floodplain.,"(a)

               100-year flood defined. For the purposes of this section a 100-year floodplain shall be defined as the area
               adjoining a river, stream, or watercourse covered by water having a one percent chance
               of being equaled or exceeded in magnitude in any given year.

               (b)

               Restrictions. Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary, no water or sewer
               service shall be provided to any structures permitted to be located, if any, within
               the 100-year floodplain.

               (Code 2008, § 151.17; Ord. No. 2003-034, 9-15-2003)"
Secs. 18-13—18-42.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,ADMINISTRATION,NULL
Sec. 18-43.,Designation of the floodplain administrator.,"The city manager is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to administer and
               implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR
               (emergency management and assistance — national flood insurance program regulations)
               pertaining to floodplain management.

               (Code 2008, § 151.20; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
ARTICLE II.,POLICE DEPARTMENT,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority of city to establish and regulate a municipal police force, V.T.C.A., Local
               Government Code § 341.001."
Sec. 20-21.,Department created.,"(a)

               There is hereby created and established a police department in the city, which shall
               consist of a police chief and such police officers as the city council may from time
               to time deem necessary and proper.

               (b)

               The chief of police shall be the commander and administrative head of the police department.

               (Code 2008, § 32.01)"
Sec. 18-44.,Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.,"Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not
               be limited to, the following:

                  (1)

                  Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
                  of this chapter.

                  (2)

                  Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the proposed building
                  site project, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
                  from flooding.

                  (3)

                  Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption
                  of this chapter.

                  (4)

                  Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have
                  been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies (including
                  Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C.
                  1334) from which prior approval is required.

                  (5)

                  Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas
                  of special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between
                  a mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the floodplain administrator shall
                  make the necessary interpretation.

                  (6)

                  Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state coordinating agency
                  which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also the Texas Commission on
                  Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
                  and submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency.

                  (7)

                  Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of
                  any watercourse is maintained.

                  (8)

                  When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with section 18-6, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
                  flood elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source,
                  in order to administer the provisions of section 18-66—18-68.

               (Code 2008, § 151.21; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 40-145.,Application.,"The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons, customers, and property utilizing
               water provided by the city. The terms person and customer as used in the plan include
               individuals, corporations, partnership, associations, and all other legal entities.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 18-45.,Permit procedures.,"(a)

               Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to the floodplain
               administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to,
               plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation
               of proposed landscape alterations, existing and proposed structures, including the
               placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to
               areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is required:

               (1)

               Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement)
               of all new and substantially improved structures;

               (2)

               Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure shall
               be floodproofed;

               (3)

               A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the nonresidential
               floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria of section 18-67(2);

               (4)

               Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered
               or relocated as a result of proposed development.

               (5)

               Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with section 18-44(1).

               (b)

               Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the floodplain administrator
               shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the following relevant
               factors:

               (1)

               The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;

               (2)

               The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the
               effect of such damage on the individual owner;

               (3)

               The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;

               (4)

               The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;

               (5)

               The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
               vehicles;

               (6)

               The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including
               maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities
               such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;

               (7)

               The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the
               floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

               (8)

               The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;

               (9)

               The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage,
               for the proposed use.

               (Code 2008, § 151.22; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-46.,Variance procedures.,"(a)

               The appeal board, as established by the community, shall hear and render judgment
               on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.

               (b)

               The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged
               there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the floodplain
               administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.

               (c)

               Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal such
               decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.

               (d)

               The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal
               and shall report variances to the federal emergency management agency upon request.

               (e)

               Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures
               listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic
               Places, without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.

               (f)

               Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
               on a lot of one-half-acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
               existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant
               factors in section 18-45(b) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half-acre,
               the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.

               (g)

               Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this chapter, the
               appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
               to further the purpose and objectives of this chapter (section 18-2).

               (h)

               Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
               levels during the base flood discharge would result.

               (i)

               Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon
               a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
               continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
               to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.

               (j)

               Prerequisites for granting variances:

               (1)

               Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
               necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

               (2)

               Variances shall only be issued upon:

               a.

               Showing a good and sufficient cause;

               b.

               A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
               to the applicant, and

               c.

               A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
               heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
               nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
               local laws or ordinances.

               (3)

               Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
               the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below
               the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
               with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.

               (k)

               Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial improvements
               and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use
               provided that:

               (1)

               The criteria outlined in subsections (a)—(i) are met, and

               (2)

               The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages
               during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.

               (Code 2008, § 151.23; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Secs. 18-47—18-65.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS,NULL
Sec. 18-66.,General standards.,"In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for all
               new construction and substantial improvements:

                  (1)

                  All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and
                  adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
                  resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;

                  (2)

                  All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and
                  practices that minimize flood damage;

                  (3)

                  All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials
                  resistant to flood damage;

                  (4)

                  All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical,
                  heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities
                  that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
                  within the components during conditions of flooding.

                  (5)

                  All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                  infiltration of flood waters into the system;

                  (6)

                  New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                  infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into flood
                  waters; and,

                  (7)

                  On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination
                  from them during flooding.

               (Code 2008, § 151.30; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-67.,Specific standards.,"In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided
               as set forth in:

                  (1)

                   Section 18-6,

                  (2)

                   Section 18-44(8), or

                  (3)

                   Section 18-68(c), the following provisions are required:

                  a.

                  Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have
                  the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
                  A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
                  to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in section 18-45(a)(1), is satisfied.

                  b.

                  Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial or other
                  nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
                  to or above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
                  be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
                  substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having
                  the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
                  A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
                  design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
                  design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
                  as outlined in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the
                  specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed
                  shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.

                  c.

                  Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the
                  lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage
                  in an area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed
                  to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
                  the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either
                  be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
                  the following minimum criteria:

                  1.

                  A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area of not less than
                  one-square-inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
                  provided.

                  2.

                  The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one-foot above grade.

                  3.

                  Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices
                  provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

                  d.

                  Manufactured Homes.

                  1.

                  Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A on a community's FIRM
                  shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. For the
                  purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to
                  resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include,
                  but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
                  requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for
                  resisting wind forces.

                  2.

                  Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within zones
                  A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites:

                  i.

                  Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision,

                  ii.

                  In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,

                  iii.

                  In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or

                  iv.

                  In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home
                  has incurred ""substantial damage"" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent
                  foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above
                  the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
                  system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

                  3.

                  Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on sites in an
                  existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones A1-30, AH and AE on the
                  community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of subsection d. be elevated
                  so that either:

                  i.

                  The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation,
                  or

                  ii.

                  The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation
                  elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36 inches in height
                  above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
                  resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

               (Code 2008, § 151.31; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 26-119.,Use of metal detectors.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate a metal detector in a city park,
               except by permit from the director or city manager.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.08), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-120.,Admission charges.,"It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to charge an admission fee to
               enter any city park area, except by executed agreement or permit from the director
               or city manager.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.09), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-121.,Intentional balloon release.,"No person or organization shall intentionally release, organize the release or intentionally
               cause to be released within a 24-hour period, ten or more balloons inflated with a
               gas that is lighter than air from any city park area.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.10), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-122—26-140.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 18-68.,Standards for subdivision proposals.,"(a)

               All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions
               shall be consistent with section 18-1—18-3.

               (b)

               All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of manufactured
               home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain development permit requirements
               of section 18-7; section 18-45; and the provisions of sections 18-66—18-68.

               (c)

               Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
               development including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions which
               is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided
               pursuant to section 18-6 or section 18-44(8).

               (d)

               All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions
               shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

               (e)

               All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions
               shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
               systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.

               (Code 2008, § 151.32; Ord. No. 2012-025, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 18-69.,Wetland protection.,"(a)

               For the purposes of this section, the term ""wetland"" shall be defined as those areas
               designated by the city council that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
               groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
               circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in
               saturated conditions.

               (b)

               No water or sewer services shall be provided to any structures located within designated
               wetland areas.

               (Code 2008, § 151.40; Ord. No. 2003-040, 9-15-2003)"
Chapter 20,LAW ENFORCEMENT,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. ch. 1 et seq., V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 1 et seq.; public safety, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 341 et seq.; law enforcement
               officers, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1701; municipal law enforcement, V.T.C.A.,
               Local Government Code ch. 341; law enforcement services provided through cooperation
               of local governments, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 362."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 20-1.,Mayor's powers to summon special police force not affected.,"This chapter does not limit the power of the mayor to summon into service a special
               police force as provided by V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 341.011.

               (Code 2008, § 32.33)"
Secs. 20-2—20-20.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 20-24.,Duties.,"All police officers and other members of the police department shall be and are hereby
               invested with all the power and authority given to them as peace officers under the
               laws of the state in enforcing the criminal and traffic laws of the state and the
               ordinances of this city within the jurisdictional limits of the city. It shall also
               be the general duty of all police officers to quell riots, disorders, and disturbances
               of the peace and to take into custody all persons so offending against the public
               peace. Such officers shall further use their best endeavors to prevent the commission
               within the city of offenses against the laws of the state and of the ordinances of
               the city; to observe and enforce all such laws and ordinances; to detect and arrest
               offenders against the same; to preserve the good order of the city and to secure the
               inhabitants thereof from violence, and the property therein from injury. Such officers
               shall have no power or authority in civil matters, but shall execute any criminal
               warrant or warrant of arrest which may be placed in their hands by the duly constituted
               authorities of the city. In addition, all police officers shall execute all writs
               and processes issued from the municipal court of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 32.04)"
Sec. 20-25.,"Uniforms, badges, and armament.","The chief of police shall prescribe the uniforms and badges for the members of the
               police department, and direct the manner in which the members of said force shall
               be armed.

               (Code 2008, § 32.05)"
Sec. 20-26.,Department policies manual adopted.,"The Alvarado Police Department Manual, as amended, containing the general policies,
               procedures, and rules for operation of the police department of the city is hereby
               adopted as the official departmental policy manual of the police department.

               (Code 2008, § 32.06)"
Secs. 20-27—20-55.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,MUTUAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AID,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Mutual aid law enforcement agreements authorized, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code
               ch. 362."
Sec. 20-56.,State mutual aid law adopted.,"The city hereby adopts V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 362.

               (Code 2008, § 32.40)"
Sec. 20-57.,Mayor may commission police to other cities.,"The city, acting by and through its mayor or mayor pro tem, or in their absence or
               inability to act, the chief of police may send or direct any of its regularly employed
               law enforcement officers to assist any other county or municipality when a request
               is received for assistance from the mayor or other officer authorized to declare a
               state of civil emergency in such other municipality or county, representing that there
               exists in such other county or municipality a need for additional law enforcement
               officers to protect health, life and property of such other county or municipality
               or its inhabitants and the visitors thereof, by reason of riot, unlawful assembly
               characterized by the use of force and violence, or threat by three or more persons
               acting together or without lawful authority, or during a time of natural or manmade
               calamity.

               (Code 2008, § 32.41)"
Sec. 20-58.,Police officers commissioned as peace officers of recipient city.,"Law enforcement officers sent to another municipality or county shall be in all things
               subject to the provisions of V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 362, and such officer
               or officers shall be and become peace officers of such other county or municipality
               under the command of the law enforcement officer who is in charge in that city or
               county and shall be vested with all the powers of a regular law enforcement officer
               in such other county or municipality to which sent. Such law enforcement officers
               of the city shall be entitled to the same wage, salary, pension, and all other compensations
               while performing police duties outside of the territorial limits of the city as though
               the same services were being rendered in the city, and the city shall pay to such
               officers such wages, salary, pension, and other benefits, together with medical, travel,
               food, lodging, and other expenses incurred on account of performing services outside
               of the territorial limits of the city. The city shall be reimbursed by the other county
               or municipality requesting the services from which such payments and expenses arose,
               as is provided by V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 362.

               (Code 2008, § 32.42)"
Secs. 20-59—20-64.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,ALVARADO POLICE RESERVE UNIT,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, adopted June 20, 2011, added §§ 20-60—20-68 to the Code. At
               the editor's discretion, the new material has been renumbered as herein set out to
               reserve additional sections and accommodate growth in art. III."
Sec. 20-67.,"Voluntary, limited in number.","The reserve unit shall be an auxiliary police force composed of volunteers who shall
               serve without pay. The chief of police shall establish the size, composition and organization
               of the reserve unit, which shall not exceed in number the lesser of:

                  (1)

                  The total number of regular officers employed by the city; or

                  (2)

                  The number of reserve officers for which worker's compensation fund contributions
                  have been budgeted for the then-current fiscal year.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-68.,Training.,"Prior to performing any duties as a reserve police officer, each police reserve applicant
               shall have received training from the Alvarado Police Department or other approved
               academy in accordance with the requirements of the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement
               Officers Standards and Education or its successor and shall apply for certification
               by said commission as a reserve police officer.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-69.,Call to active service by chief of police.,"Members of the reserve unit shall serve at the discretion of the chief of police and
               may be called into active service any time that the chief of police considers it necessary
               to have additional police officers to preserve the peace and enforce the law.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-70.,Supplementary capacity.,"The reserve police officers of the reserve unit shall act only in a supplementary
               capacity to the regular police force who shall in no case assume the full-time duties
               of the regular police officers.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 20-71.,No compensation or benefits.,"No reserve police officer appointed pursuant to this article shall be entitled to
               compensation for service. A reserve police officer is not eligible for participation
               in any program or benefit provided by the city that is normally considered a financial
               benefit of full-time employment and nothing in this article shall be construed to
               authorize or permit a member of the reserve unit to become eligible for participation
               in any pension fund created pursuant to state statute to which regular officers may
               become a member by payroll deductions or otherwise.

               (Ord. No. 2011-020, § 1, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 22-1.,Municipal court of record created.,"(a)

               The city council hereby establishes the Alvarado Municipal Court as a municipal court
               of record in order to provide a more efficient disposition of cases arising in the
               city, and in order to more effectively enforce the ordinances of the city. The municipal
               court shall become a court of record from and after December 19, 2006, and shall be
               known as the ""Municipal Court of Record in the City of Alvarado.""

               (b)

               This municipal court of record is established pursuant to the authority granted in
               V.T.C.A., Government Code ch. 30, known as the Uniform Municipal Courts of Record Act, and the terms set forth therein
               are hereby adopted governing the operation of said court.

               (Code 2008, § 33.01; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Sec. 22-2.,Jurisdiction.,"The court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with any justice court in any precinct
               in which the city is located in criminal cases that arise within the city and are
               punishable only by fine.

               (Code 2008, § 33.02; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)

            State Law reference— 
               Jurisdiction, V.T.C.A., Government Code § 30.00005."
Sec. 22-27.,Office of municipal judge created; appointment; compensation; oath.,"(a)

               There is hereby created the office of judge of the municipal court who shall have
               all the powers and authority as granted by state law and the ordinances of this city
               and shall perform all the duties as prescribed by the laws of the state and the ordinances
               of this city.

               (b)

               The judge of the municipal court of record in the city shall be appointed by the city
               council for a term of two years. The municipal judge must be a licensed attorney in
               good standing in the state, and must have two or more years of experience in the practice
               of law in the state. The judge must be a citizen of the United States and of the state.

               (c)

               Compensation for the office of municipal judge shall be set from time to time by the
               city council.

               (d)

               Prior to taking office, the judge of the municipal court shall take the oath of office
               required by the Constitution and laws of the state.

               (Code 2008, § 33.20; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Sec. 22-28.,Vacancy.,"In the event of a vacancy in the office of municipal judge, the city council may appoint
               any qualified person temporarily or until the end of the existing term.

               (Code 2008, § 33.21)"
Sec. 22-3.,Municipal court building technology fee.,"(a)

               Establishment of the municipal court technology fund.

               (1)

               There is hereby created and established a municipal court technology fund, hereinafter
               referred to as the ""fund,"" pursuant to Vernon's Ann. C.C.P. art. 102.0172.

               (2)

               The fund may be maintained in an interest-bearing account and may be maintained in
               the general revenue account.

               (b)

               Establishment of amount of the fee and assessment and collection.

               (1)

               The fee shall be in the amount of $4.00.

               (2)

               The fee shall be assessed and collected from the defendant upon conviction for a misdemeanor
               offense in the city municipal court as a cost of court. A defendant is considered
               convicted if:

               a.

               A sentence is imposed on the person;

               b.

               The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred adjudication community
               supervision; or

               c.

               The court defers final disposition of the person's case.

               (3)

               The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense committed on or after September
               1, 1999.

               (4)

               The court clerk shall collect the fee and pay the fee to the finance director of the
               city, who shall deposit the fee into the municipal court technology fund.

               (c)

               Designated use of the fund and administration.

               (1)

               The fund shall be used only to finance the purchase of technological enhancements
               for the municipal court of the city, including:

               a.

               Computer systems;

               b.

               Computer networks;

               c.

               Computer hardware;

               d.

               Computer software;

               e.

               Imaging systems;

               f.

               Electronic kiosks;

               g.

               Electronic ticket writers; or

               h.

               Docket management systems.

               (2)

               The fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 33.05; Ord. No. 99-046, 8-23-1999)"
ARTICLE II.,WEAPONS,NULL
Sec. 24-51.,Penalties.,"(a)

               A person who violates section 24-48 hereof is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which
               the violation is committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction,
               is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00.

               (b)

               When required by V.T.C.A., Family Code § 51.08, as amended, the municipal court shall
               waive original jurisdiction over a juvenile who violates section 24-48 and shall refer the juvenile to juvenile court.

               (Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Secs. 24-52—24-75.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 22-4.,Municipal court building security fund.,"(a)

               Fund created. There is hereby created a municipal court building security fund pursuant to Vernon's
               Ann. C.C.P. art. 102.017. This fund shall be administered under the direction of the
               city council.

               (b)

               Fee assessed. All defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense in municipal court shall be required
               to pay a $3.00 security fee as a cost of court. A person is considered convicted for
               purposes of this article if a sentence is imposed on the person, the person receives
               community supervision, including deferred adjudication, or the court defers final
               disposition of the person's case. The security fee shall be collected by the municipal
               court clerk and paid to the official who discharges the duties of municipal treasurer
               for deposit in the municipal court building security fund.

               (c)

               Fund purposes. The municipal court building security fund may be used only to finance items when
               used for the purpose of providing security services for any buildings housing the
               municipal court of the city, including:

               (1)

               The purchase or repair of x-ray machines and conveying systems;

               (2)

               Hand-held metal detectors;

               (3)

               Walk-through metal detectors;

               (4)

               Identification cards and systems;

               (5)

               Electronic locking and surveillance equipment;

               (6)

               Bailiffs, deputy sheriffs, deputy constables, or contract security personnel during
               times when they are providing appropriate security services;

               (7)

               Signage;

               (8)

               Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;

               (9)

               Locks, chains, alarms, or similar security devices;

               (10)

               The purchase or repair of bullet-proof glass; and

               (11)

               Continuing education on security issues for court personnel and security personnel.

               (Code 2008, § 33.06; Ord. No. 99-050, 11-13-1999)"
Secs. 22-5—22-26.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,MUNICIPAL JUDGE,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Judge of municipal court of record, V.T.C.A., Government Code § 30.00006."
ARTICLE IV.,FALSE ALARMS,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               False alarm or report, V.T.C.A., Penal Code § 42.06."
Sec. 22-29.,Substitute judge.,"The city council shall appoint such qualified individuals to serve as substitute judge
               of the municipal court of record in the city, if the municipal judge is temporarily
               unavailable or unable to serve and shall have the power and compensation as the municipal
               judge as may be required. The municipal judge shall select one of the qualified persons
               appointed by the city council to serve during the absence of the municipal judge.
               The substitute judge, while serving as a municipal judge, has all the powers and shall
               discharge the duties of a municipal judge. A substitute judge must meet the qualifications
               prescribed for the municipal judge.

               (Code 2008, § 33.22; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Sec. 22-30.,Term of office.,"The judge of the municipal court shall be appointed to serve a term concurrent with
               that of the office of mayor and shall assume the duties of the office as provided
               under the laws of the state.

               (Code 2008, § 33.23)"
Sec. 22-31.,Operation of municipal court.,"The municipal judge shall supervise and control the operation and clerical functions
               of the administrative departments of the municipal court, including the court's personnel,
               during the proceedings or docket of the court. At all other times, the operation and
               clerical functions of the administrative department of the municipal court shall be
               under the supervision and direction of the city manager.

               (Code 2008, § 33.24; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Sec. 22-32.,Trial by jury.,"The municipal judge shall supervise the selection of persons for jury service.

               (Code 2008, § 33.25; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Secs. 22-33—22-45.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,COURT CLERK,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Court clerk and other personnel, V.T.C.A., Government Code § 30.00009 et seq."
Sec. 22-46.,Office of court clerk created; appointment; duties.,"The city manager shall appoint a clerk of the municipal court of record who shall
               perform duties in accordance with state law and city ordinances. During proceedings
               of the court, the clerk and other court personnel shall serve at the direction and
               supervision of the city manager who shall have the authority to remove the court clerk
               or other court personnel according to rules set forth in the city's personnel policies.
               The clerk of the municipal court of record shall perform the duties described in V.T.C.A.,
               Government Code § 30.00009.

               (Code 2008, § 33.40; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)"
Sec. 22-47.,Court reporter; appeal procedure.,"(a)

               The municipal court clerk shall appoint a court reporter who must meet the qualifications
               provided by law for official court reporters. The court reporter or court staff may
               use written notes, transcribing equipment, video or audio recording equipment, or
               a combination of those methods to record the proceedings of the court. The court reporter
               or court staff are not required to record testimony in any case unless the judge or
               one of the parties requests a record in writing, and files the request with the court
               before trial. If a record is made, it shall be kept for the 20-day period beginning
               the day after the last day of the court proceeding, trial or denial of motion for
               new trial, whichever occurs last. The court reporter is not required to be present
               during proceedings of the municipal court of record, provided that proceedings that
               are required to be recorded are recorded by a good quality electronic recording device.

               (b)

               In the event of an appeal, the appellant shall pay a transcript preparation fee in
               the amount of $25.00. The transcript preparation fee does not include the fee for
               an actual transcript of the proceedings. The clerk shall not the payment of the fee
               on the docket of the court. If the case is reversed on appeal, the fee shall be refunded
               to the appellant. In addition to the transcript preparation fee, the fee for the actual
               transcript of the proceedings and statement of facts must be paid by the appellant,
               pursuant to V.T.C.A., Government Code §§ 30.00014 and 30.00019.

               (Code 2008, § 33.41; Ord. No. 2006-012, 12-19-2006)

            State Law reference— 
               Court reporter, V.T.C.A., Government Code § 30.00010."
ARTICLE IV.,CITY MARSHAL,NULL
Sec. 22-48.,"Appointment, number, qualifications.","There is hereby created the office of the city marshal, to be filled by the qualified
               persons appointed and employed by the city manager. There may be more than one city
               marshal appointed and employed at any time. The city marshal shall meet all qualifications
               necessary to be certified as a peace officer under V.T.C.A. Texas Code of Criminal
               Procedure, article 2.12(3).

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-005
                  
               , § 1, 3-19-2018)"
Sec. 22-49.,Duties.,"The city marshal shall perform the following duties:

                  (1)

                  Execute warrants of arrest, subpoenas, and other legal process issued by the municipal
                  court;

                  (2)

                  Transport, accept, and process prisoners as directed by the city manager or his designee;

                  (3)

                  Serve as court bailiff in the municipal court and provide building and courtroom security;
                  and

                  (4)

                  Perform other duties as assigned by the city manager or his designee.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-005
                  
               , § 1, 3-19-2018)"
Sec. 22-50.,Authority.,"(a)

               The city marshals shall serve as peace officers and have full police authority in
               the exercise of their assigned duties; however, they shall not be assigned the duties
               which are presently assigned to the police department of the city. The city marshals
               may enforce federal, state, or local laws in the course and scope of the performance
               of their duties.

               (b)

               The city marshals are not members of the police department of the city; however, they
               are eligible for membership in the Texas Municipal Retirement System.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-005
                  
               , § 1, 3-19-2018; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-007
                  
               , § 1, 4-16-2018)"
Sec. 22-51.,Oath of office.,"Each city marshal shall be required to take an oath of office before entering upon
               the discharge of his or her duties. The oath shall be subscribed by the person taking
               it and shall be filed and preserved in the office of the city secretary. The form
               of oath shall be the same as required for members of the city council.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-005
                  
               , § 1, 3-19-2018)"
Chapter 24,OFFENSES,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Penal Code ch. 1 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 24-1.,Open wells.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any well, cistern, or other excavation
               to be or remain open or uncovered to the danger of others, on any premises owned,
               controlled, or occupied by him.

               (Code 2008, § 130.80)

            State Law reference— 
               Open or uncovered wells in water conservation districts, V.T.C.A., Water Code § 36.118."
Sec. 24-2.,Camping in city.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to camp within the city.

               (Code 2008, § 130.81)"
Sec. 24-3.,Tobacco use prohibited in city hall.,"(a)

               The smoking of any tobacco product in city hall is prohibited.

               (b)

               The use of chewing tobacco in city hall is prohibited.

               (c)

               The use of snuff in city hall is prohibited.

               (d)

               Each entrance to city hall shall be posted with a sign which states that the use of
               tobacco and snuff is prohibited.

               (Code 2008, § 130.82; Ord. No. 2001-032, 6-11-2001)

            State Law reference— 
               Texas Clean Air Act, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 382; smoking tobacco, V.T.C.A.,
               Penal Code § 48.01."
Sec. 24-4.,Attendance of certain motion pictures by minors.,"(a)

               Owners, managers, or employees of motion picture theaters shall not, with respect
               to the theatre patrons, or would-be patrons, less than 17 years of age:

               (1)

               Sell them tickets of admission to or permit their attendance at showings of motion
               pictures which have been rated ""(R) Restricted"" by the Motion Picture Association
               of America, unless such patron is accompanied by one of such patron's parents or legal
               guardians.

               (2)

               Sell them tickets of admission to or permit their attendance at showings of motion
               pictures which have been rated ""(X) Not Suitable"" by the Motion Picture Association
               of America.

               (b)

               It shall be a defense of prosecution under this section that the patron, or would-be
               patron, less than 17 years of age was at the time of the alleged violation emancipated
               by virtue of:

               (1)

               Being a member of the Armed Forces of the United States on active duty; or

               (2)

               Being lawfully married.

               (Code 2008, § 130.30)

            State Law reference— 
               Sale, distribution or display of harmful material to minor, V.T.C.A., Penal Code §
               43.24."
Sec. 24-27.,Definitions; firearms in city buildings.,"(a)

               Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               City building means any building or portion of a building owned, occupied, leased, or controlled
               by the city for city operations and activities. The term does not include any public
               or private driveway, street, sidewalk or walkway, parking lot, parking garage, or
               other parking area.

               Gun, pistol, rifle, and firearms shall not only be defined to include all percussion weapons, but shall include all
               airguns, air pistols, air rifles, and all other firearms using air pressure to propel
               a projectile.

               Handgun means any firearm that is designed, made, or adapted to be fired with one hand, and
               the term ""concealed handgun"" means a handgun, the presence of which is not openly
               discernibly to the ordinary observation of a reasonable person.

               (b)

               Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a peace officer, to carry a firearm
               in any city building, regardless of whether or not the person is duly licensed by
               the state to carry a concealed handgun.

               (Code 2008, § 130.51)"
Sec. 24-5.,"Possession, sale or ingestion of certain substances.","(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, sell, publicly display
               for sale or attempt to sell, give or barter any one or more of the following substances
               within the city limits of the City of Alvarado, Texas:

               (1)

               Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently classified botanically
               as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, any extract from any
               part of such plant, and every compound, manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or
               preparation of such plant, its seeds or extracts;

               (2)

               (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol
               commonly known as HU-210;

               (3)

               1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-018 Spice or K2;

               (4)

               1-Butyl-3-(1 naphthoyl)indole commonly known as JWH-073;

               (5)

               N-benzylpiperazine commonly known as BZP;

               (6)

               1-(3-[trifluoromethylphenyl]) piperazine commonly known as TFMPP;

               (7)

               Any other synthetic cannabinoid; or

               (8)

               Any similar substance which when inhaled or otherwise ingested produces intoxication,
               stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any manner, changes
               distorts or disturbs the auditory, visual, or mental process and the product or substance
               had no other apparent legitimate purpose for consumers.

               Products containing some of the above substances are currently being marketed under
               the following commercial names:

               ""K-2"", ""K-2 Summit"", ""K-2 Sex"", ""Genie"", ""Dascents"", ""Zohai"", ""Sage"", ""Spice"", ""KO
               Knock-Out 2"", ""Spice Gold"", ""Spice Diamond"", ""Yucatan Fire"", ""Solar Flare"", ""Pep Spice"",
               ""Fire N' Ice"", and ""Salvia Divinorum"".

               It is anticipated by the council that new products will be marketed under different
               names but will be subject to this definition if they contain any of the chemical components
               set forth above.

               (b)

               It is not a violation of this section for a person who is acting under the supervision
               of an authorized law enforcement officer to enforce or ensure compliance with the
               section to act as prohibited by subsection (a) hereof.

               (c)

               It is unlawful for any person, knowingly, to breathe, inhale, drink, or otherwise
               ingest any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this section, or a similar substance
               for the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness,
               paralysis, irrational behavior, or in any manner, changing, distorting or disturbing
               the auditory, visual, or mental process.

               (d)

               This section does not apply to any person who commits any act described in this section
               pursuant to the direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist licensed
               by the state to direct or prescribe such act. This section likewise does not apply
               to the inhalation of anesthesia for a medical or dental purpose.

               (Ord. No. 2010-017, § 2, 9-20-2010)"
Secs. 24-6—24-26.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 24-28.,Discharge of firearms prohibited.,"(a)

               No person shall discharge any gun, pistol, rifle or firearm in the city.

               (b)

               This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging
               a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor any citizen from discharging a firearm
               when lawfully defending person or property.

               (c)

               Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to the discharge of a firearm by active
               or reserve duty military personnel at a military funeral.

               (Code 2008, § 130.52; Ord. No. 2001-036, 7-9-2001; Ord. No. 2006-045, 9-18-2006)

            State Law reference— 
               Authority of municipality to regulate the discharge of firearms, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code § 217.003."
Sec. 24-29.,Shooting bows and crossbows prohibited.,"(a)

               No person shall shoot any arrow or bolt from a bow or crossbow in the city.

               (b)

               This section shall not be deemed to prohibit archery in public recreation or education
               programs.

               (Code 2008, § 130.53; Ord. No. 2001-036, 7-9-2001)"
Secs. 24-30—24-46.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,CURFEW HOURS FOR JUVENILES,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, adopted May 20, 2013, amended art. III, to read as set out
               herein. Previously art. III, was titled curfew hours for minors and was derived from
               Code 2008, §§ 130.91—130.94; Ord. No. 2007-27, adopted Sept. 17, 2007 and Ord. No.
               2010-016, § 1, adopted Aug. 6, 2010.

            State Law reference— 
               General authority for juvenile curfew, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 341.905;
               county juvenile curfew, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 351.903."
Sec. 24-82.,Automatic alarm notification prohibited.,"An alarm system which transmits automatic alarm notification directly to the communication
               center of the police or fire department is prohibited.

               (Code 2008, § 92.46)"
Sec. 24-106.,Penalty.,"Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of the provisions
               of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
               be fined for each offense as provided in section 1-12 of this Code. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
               separate offense.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-47.,Definitions.,"In this section:

               Curfew hours means:

                  (1)

                  11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday until 6:00 a.m.
                  of the following day;

                  (2)

                  12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday; and

                  (3)

                  9:00 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. on every Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.

               Emergency means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state that calls
               for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural
               disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
               serious bodily injury or loss of life.

               Establishment means any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit to which the public
               is invited, including but not limited to any place of amusement or entertainment.

               Guardian means:

                  (1)

                  A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a juvenile; or

                  (2)

                  A public or private agency with whom a juvenile has been placed by a court.

               In session means the status of a school during the fall or spring term when students are required
               to attend the school. A school is not in session during its summer break or during
               any holiday or other scheduled general student vacation day or part of a day observed
               by the school.

               Juvenile means any person under 17 years of age.

               Operator means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation operating, managing,
               or conducting any establishment. The term includes the members or partners of an association
               or partnership and the officers of a corporation.

               Parent means a person who is:

                  (1)

                  A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another person; or

                  (2)

                  At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and
                  custody of a juvenile.

               Public place means any place to which the public or a substantial group of the public has access
               and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and the common areas of schools,
               hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and shops.

               Remain means to:

                  (1)

                  Linger or stay; or

                  (2)

                  Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or the owner, operator,
                  or other person in control of the premises.

               Serious bodily injury means bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death or that causes death,
               serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function
               of any bodily member or organ.

               (Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 24-48.,Offenses.,"(a)

               A juvenile commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on the premises
               of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.

               (b)

               A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he knowingly permits, or
               by insufficient control allows, the juvenile to remain in any public place or on the
               premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.

               (c)

               The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an offense if he
               knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of the establishment during
               curfew hours.

               (Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 24-49.,Defenses.,"(a)

               It is a defense to prosecution under section 24-48 that the juvenile was:

               (1)

               Accompanied by the juvenile's parent or guardian;

               (2)

               On an errand at the direction of the juvenile's parent or guardian, without any detour
               or stop;

               (3)

               In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;

               (4)

               Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from an employment
               activity, without any detour or stop;

               (5)

               Involved in an emergency;

               (6)

               On the sidewalk abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the residence of a next-door
               neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the police department about the juvenile's
               presence, except that this defense does not apply to a violation of the curfew hours
               described in subsection (3) of the definition of ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47;

               (7)

               Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised
               by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity
               that takes responsibility for the juvenile, or going to or returning home from, without
               any detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
               supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar
               entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile;

               (8)

               Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States Constitution, such
               as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the right of assembly; or

               (9)

               Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in accordance
               with V.T.C.A., Family Code ch. 31.

               (b)

               It is a defense to prosecution under section 24-48(c) that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
               police department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
               during curfew hours and refused to leave.

               (c)

               It is a defense to prosecution under section 24-48 for a violation of the curfew hours described in subsection (3) of the definition
               of ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47 that:

               (1)

               The school in which the juvenile was enrolled or otherwise required to attend was
               not in session;

               (2)

               The juvenile was on the premises of the school in which the juvenile was enrolled
               or otherwise required to attend;

               (3)

               The juvenile was participating in a school-approved work study program, or was going
               to the work study program or returning to home or school from the work-study program
               without any detour or stop;

               (4)

               The juvenile was on a lunch break from a school that permits an open campus lunch
               and was qualified to participate in the open campus lunch program;

               (5)

               The juvenile was on an excused absence from the school in which the juvenile was enrolled
               or otherwise required to attend and had permission from a school official, or, in
               the case of a home-schooled juvenile, from the juvenile's parent or guardian; or

               (6)

               The juvenile was a high school graduate or had received a high school equivalency
               certificate.

               (Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 24-50.,Enforcement.,"(a)

               Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police officer shall ask
               the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The officer
               shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer
               reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and
               other circumstances, no defense in section 24-49 is present.

               (b)

               A police officer shall not issue a citation to or arrest a parent or guardian of a
               juvenile for a violation of section 24-48(b) relating to the curfew hours described in subsection (3) of the definition of
               ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47, unless the parent or guardian has, within the same calendar year, received at least
               one prior written warning from a police officer for a violation of section 24-48(b) relating to the curfew hours described in subsection (3) of the definition of
               ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47. In calculating the number of warnings received by a parent or guardian in a calendar
               year, all warnings issued to the parent or guardian will be counted, regardless of
               whether the warnings relate to the same juvenile.

               (c)

               A police officer shall not issue a citation to or arrest an owner, operator, or employee
               of an establishment for a violation of section 24-48(c) relating to the curfew hours described in subsection (3) of the definition of
               ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47, unless the establishment has, within the same calendar year, received at least one
               prior written warning from a police officer for a violation of section 24-48(c) relating to the curfew hours described in subsection (3) of the definition of
               ""curfew hours"" in section 24-47. In calculating the number of warnings received by an establishment in a calendar
               year, all warnings issued to any owner, operator, or employee of the establishment
               will be counted, regardless of whether the warnings relate to the same juvenile.

               (Ord. No. 2013-023, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 24-76.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Alarm system means any mechanical or electrical device which is used to protect buildings or premises
               from fire or criminal acts or unauthorized entries by warning persons of a crime or
               unauthorized entry through the emission of a sound, or the transmission of a signal
               or message.

               Permit holder means a natural person designated in the application as required herein who is responsible
               for responding to alarms and giving access to the site and who is also responsible
               for proper maintenance and operation of the alarm system and payment of fees.

               Smoke emitting device means a machine specifically constructed to be triggered/activated by an alarm system
               that, when activated, produces a dense smoke, fog, or vapor to reduce visibility in
               the protected area.

               (Code 2008, § 92.40; Ord. No. 2007-19, 7-16-2007)"
Sec. 24-79.,Proper alarm system operation and maintenance.,"A permit holder shall:

                  (1)

                  Maintain the premises containing an alarm system in a manner that ensures proper operation
                  of the alarm system;

                  (2)

                  Maintain the alarm system in a manner that will minimize false alarm notifications;

                  (3)

                  Respond to or cause a representative to respond within a reasonable period of time
                  when requested by the city to repair or inactivate a malfunctioning alarm system,
                  to provide access to the premises or to provide security for the premises;

                  (4)

                  Refrain from manually activating an alarm for any reason other than the occurrence
                  of an event that the alarm system was intended to report;

                  (5)

                  Notify the police department prior to activating an alarm for maintenance purposes;

                  (6)

                  Post the permit at a location where it may be read from outside the main entrance
                  by the responding officer.

               (Code 2008, § 92.43)"
Sec. 24-80.,"Alarm activation, limitation and reset requirement.","A permit holder shall not utilize any alarm system which causes an audible signal
               to be emitted for more than 30 minutes after being activated or which emits a subsequent
               alarm without being reset.

               (Code 2008, § 92.44)"
Sec. 24-81.,Indirect alarm reporting.,"A person who is engaged in the business of relaying alarm notification to the city
               shall:

                  (1)

                  Communicate alarm notification to the city in a manner and form determined by the
                  building official;

                  (2)

                  Comply with the requirements of this article and any rules and regulations promulgated
                  by the building official.

               (Code 2008, § 92.45)"
Sec. 24-77.,Permit required; fee; application; transferability; false statements.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if he operates or causes to be operated an alarm system
               without an alarm permit issued by the building official. A separate permit is required
               for each alarm system.

               (b)

               A fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
               from time to time shall be charged for the issuance of each permit.

               (c)

               Upon receipt of a completed application form and the required fee, the building official
               shall issue an alarm permit to an applicant unless the applicant has failed to pay
               a service fee assessed under section 24-83 or alarm permit for the same address has been revoked, and the violation causing
               the revocation has not been corrected.

               (d)

               Each permit application must contain the following information:

               (1)

               Name, address, and telephone number of the permit holder who will be responsible for
               the proper maintenance and operation of the alarm system and payment of fees assessed
               under this section;

               (2)

               Address of the location of the alarm system;

               (3)

               A description by brand and general type of the alarm system stating the manner in
               which the alarm will be given, and if the alarm is to be transmitted to a central
               office, the name of the operator of the central office, address and telephone number;

               (4)

               Other information required by the building official which is necessary for the enforcement
               of this chapter.

               (e)

               Any false statement of a material matter made by an applicant for the purpose of obtaining
               an alarm permit shall be sufficient cause for refusal to issue a permit.

               (f)

               An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another alarm system or to another permit
               holder except by authorization of the building official. A permit holder shall inform
               the chief of any change that alters any information listed on the permit application
               within two business days. No fee will be assessed for such changes.

               (g)

               A permit holder shall cancel a permit for any alarm system which is removed from an
               alarm site or which otherwise ceases to come under the permit and requirements of
               this chapter. Cancellation may be accomplished by returning the permit to the building
               official.

               (h)

               All fees owed by an applicant under this section must be paid before a permit may
               be issued or renewed.

               (Code 2008, § 92.41; Ord. No. 2000-043, 8-28-2000)"
Sec. 24-78.,Permit duration and renewal.,"A permit is issued for two years and must be renewed every two years upon submission
               of an updated application and payment of the fee required for a new permit. It is
               the responsibility of the permit holder to submit an application prior to the permit
               expiration date. The building official shall determine the first expiration date of
               the permit.

               (Code 2008, § 92.42)"
Sec. 24-83.,Service fee.,"(a)

               Except as otherwise provided in subsections (b), (c) and (d), the holder of an alarm
               permit shall pay a service fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by
               resolution of the city council from time to time for each alarm notification emitted
               from any alarm system that is in excess of five alarms within any calendar year.

               (b)

               If the person notifies the building official and applies for an alarm permit before
               a new alarm system is put into service, no service fee will be assessed during the
               first 30 days after the system is put into service, and alarm notification during
               that period will not be counted in determining when a service fee will be assessed.

               (c)

               If the responding police officer or fireman determines that an alarm notification
               was caused by fire, unauthorized intrusion, attempted unauthorized intrusion, robbery,
               attempted robbery, or an attempt to take a person hostage, that notification will
               not be counted in determining when a service fee will be set.

               (d)

               An alarm notification will not be counted in determining when a service fee will be
               assessed if the permittee can prove that the alarm notification was the result of
               a severe weather condition, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake or other weather
               condition that causes physical damage to the alarm site, or the result of a malfunction
               of the telephone lines for the transmission of alarm signals, proof of the latter
               being documented upon the telephone company work orders or time stamped records from
               the alarm company showing the period of interrupted service. A permit holder has ten
               days to produce evidence for changing the status of a false alarm to a true alarm.

               (Code 2008, § 92.47; Ord. No. 2000-043, 8-28-2000;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-021, § 1, 11-20-2017
                  
               )"
Sec. 24-84.,Revocation of permit.,"The building official shall revoke an alarm permit if he determines that:

                  (1)

                  There is a false statement of a material matter in the application for permit;

                  (2)

                  The permit holder has violated any provision of sections 24-77 through 24-83;

                  (3)

                  The permit holder has failed to make payment of a service fee assessed under section 24-83 within 30 days of receiving notice to do so.

               A person commits an offense if he operates an alarm system during the period in which
               his alarm permit is revoked.

               (Code 2008, § 92.48)"
Sec. 24-100.,Findings incorporated.,"The findings set forth in Ordinance No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               are incorporated into the body of this article as if fully set forth herein.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-85.,Appeal from denial or revocation of permit.,"(a)

               If the building official refuses to issue or renew a permit, or revokes a permit,
               he shall send to the applicant or permit holder by certified mail, return receipt
               requested, written notice of his action and a statement of the right to an appeal.
               The applicant or permit holder may appeal the decision of the building official to
               the city council by filing with the city council a written request for a hearing,
               setting forth the reasons for the appeal, within ten days after receipt of the notice
               from the building official. The filing of a request for an appeal hearing with the
               city council stays an action of the building official in revoking a permit until the
               city council or its designated representative makes a final decision. If a request
               for an appeal hearing is not made within the ten-day period, the action of the building
               official is final.

               (b)

               The city council shall set a time and place for the hearing, which shall be served
               upon the applicant or permit holder by certified mail, return receipt requested. The
               city council shall consider evidence by any interested person. The formal rules of
               evidence do not apply at an appeal hearing. All parties to the hearing shall have
               the right to present evidence and shall have the right to cross-examination. The city
               council shall make its decision on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence within
               15 days after the request for an appeal hearing is filed. The time for hearing an
               appeal may be extended by agreement of the parties. The council shall affirm, reverse,
               or modify the action of the building official. The decision of the council is final
               as to administrative remedies with the city.

               (Code 2008, § 92.49)"
Sec. 24-86.,Exceptions to sections 24-76 through 24-85.,"The provisions of section 24-76 through section 24-85 shall not apply to alarm systems for one or two-family dwellings nor for systems
               operated by local, state or federal government entities.

               (Code 2008, § 92.50)"
Sec. 24-87.,Smoke emitting device prohibited.,"The installation and/or use of a smoke emitting device as a component of an alarm
               system is hereby prohibited.

               (Code 2008, § 92.51; Ord. No. 2007-19, 7-16-2007)"
Secs. 24-88—24-99.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, adopted July 16, 2018, amended the Code by repealing former art. V, §§ 24-100—24-105,
               and adding a new art. V. Former art. V pertained to child safety zones and distance
               restrictions for registered sex offenders, and derived from Ord. No.
               
                  2017-018
                  
               , adopted October 16, 2017."
Sec. 24-101.,Definitions.,"Child safety zone means premises where children commonly gather. The term includes all improved and
               unimproved areas on a lot where a park (excluding planted street medians), private
               or public school (excluding in-home schools), video arcade facility, skate park, playground,
               child care facility, community or residential swimming pool, city-owned indoor or
               outdoor recreational facility, or private recreational facility, including any such
               facility owned by a residential property owners"" association or for which an entrance,
               admission, or rental fee is charged. The term does not included church, as defined
               by V.T.C.A. Insurance Code, § 544.251.

               Minor means a person under the age of 17.

               Permanent residence means a place were a person abides, lodges, or resides for 14 or more consecutive
               days.

               Playground, premise, school, video arcade facility, and youth center shall have the meanings assigned by V.T.C.A. Heath and Safety Code, § 481.134.

               Sex offender means a person required to register as a sex offender pursuant to V.T.C.A. Code of
               Criminal Procedure, ch. 62, on the state department of public safety's sex offender
               database because of a reportable conviction or adjudication involving a minor.

               Temporary residence means a place where a person; abides, lodges, or resides for a period of 14 or more
               days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which is not the person's permanent
               address, or a place where a person routinely abides, resides, or lodges for a period
               of four or more consecutive or nonconsecutive days in any month and which is not the
               person's permanent residence.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-102.,Offenses.,"(a)

               It is unlawful for a sex offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary
               residence within 1,000 feet, of any child safety zone.

               (b)

               It is unlawful for a person who owns, rents, leases, or inhabits property within the
               city to knowingly allow a sex offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary
               residence within 1,000 feet of any child safety zone.

               (c)

               Nothing in this provision shall require any person to sell or otherwise dispose of
               any real estate or home acquired or owned prior to the conviction of the person as
               a sex offender.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-103.,Culpable mental state is not required.,"Neither allegation nor evidence of a culpable mental state is required for the proof
               of an offense defined in this chapter.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-104.,Evidentiary matters; measurement.,"(a)

               It shall be prima facie evidence that this article applies to a person, if that person's
               record appears on the database and the database indicates that the victim was less
               than 17 years of age.

               (b)

               For the purpose of determining the minimum distance of separation, the requirements
               shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of the
               permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property line of the child safety
               zone, or, in the case of multiple residence's on one property, measuring from the
               nearest property line of the premises to the nearest property line of the child safety
               zone.

               (c)

               A map depicting the prohibited areas shall be created by the city and maintained by
               the city police department. The city shall review the map annually for changes. Said
               map will be available to the public at the city police department.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-105.,Exemptions; affirmative defenses.,"(a)

               A person who established residency in a temporary or permanent residence located within
               1,000 feet of a child safety zone before July 16, 2018, is exempt from the application
               of this article.

               (b)

               A person subject to this article may seek an exemption from its application by submitting
               a request in writing to the city manager specifying the background, reason, and scope
               of the requested exemption. The city manager may seek additional information from
               the requestor, and shall issue a written determination on the requested exemption
               within ten business days from the filing of the request. The requestor may appeal
               to the city council from the determination of the city manager by filing such appeal
               request in writing to the city secretary within ten business days of the city manager's
               determination.

               (c)

               It is an affirmative defense to prosecution that any of the following conditions apply:

               (1)

               The person required to register on the database was a minor when he or she committed
               the offense requiring such registration and was not convicted as an adult.

               (2)

               The person required to register on the database is a minor.

               (3)

               The child safety zone within 1,000 feet of the permanent or temporary residence of
               the sex offender, was designated, declared and/or determined, after the person established
               the permanent or temporary residence and complied with all sex offender registration
               laws of the state.

               (4)

               The information on the database is incorrect, and, if corrected, this section would
               not apply to the person who was erroneously listed on the database.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-107.,Governmental function; liability.,"All of the regulations provided in this article are hereby declared to be governmental
               and for the health, safety and welfare of the general public. Any member of the city
               council or any city official or employee charged with the enforcement of this article,
               acting for the city in the discharge of his/her duties, shall not thereby render himself/herself
               personally liable; and he/she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
               damage that might accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or
               permitted in the discharge of his/her said duties.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-108.,Injunctive relief.,"Any violation of this article can be enjoined by a suit filed in the name of the city
               in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this remedy shall be in addition to any
               penal provision in this article or in the Code of the city.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-014
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Sec. 24-109.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VI.,ELECTRONIC VAPING DEVICES,NULL
Sec. 24-110.,Definitions.,"Electronic vaping device shall mean any electronically powered or battery powered device designed to simulate
               the smoking of tobacco, cigarettes, pipes or cigars. An electronic vaping device includes
               personal vaporizers, electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes), electronic pipes (e-pipes),
               electronic cigars (e-cigars) and any other type of electronic nicotine delivery system
               or any part thereof.

               Minor shall mean a person younger than 18 years of age.

               Person shall mean an individual, corporation, sole proprietorship, and any other type of
               business entity recognized under Texas law.

               (Ord. No. 2014-004, § 1, 2-17-2014)"
Sec. 26-1.,"Comprehensive parks, recreation and open space master plan adopted.","The Alvarado Comprehensive Plan is hereby amended to include the parks, recreation
               and open space master plan. Future park, recreation and open space development regulations
               shall be made in accordance with the parks, recreational and open space master plan.

               (Code 2008, § 97.50; Ord. No. 2004-038, 7-12-2004)"
Secs. 26-2—26-20.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD,NULL
Sec. 24-111.,Sale or distribution of electronic vaping devices to minors prohibited.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person sells, gives or causes to be sold or given
               an electronic vaping device to a minor or to a person who intends to deliver it to
               a minor.

               (b)

               If the offense under this section occurs in connection with a sale of an electronic
               device at a business by an employee of the business, the employee who committed the
               offense is subject to prosecution.

               (c)

               It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (b) that at the time of the sale,
               the minor presented the person with an apparently valid proof of identification showing
               the minor was at least 18 years of age.

               (d)

               A proof of identification satisfies the requirements of subsection (c) if it contains
               the name of the minor, a photograph resembling the appearance of the minor and was
               issued by a state or federal government agency.

               (e)

               It is not a defense under this section that the minor purchased the electronic vaping
               device from a vending machine or other self-service merchandising mechanism if the
               machine or mechanism was located on the premises of the person.

               (Ord. No. 2014-004, § 1, 2-17-2014)"
Sec. 24-112.,Possession of electronic vaping devices by minors prohibited.,"(a)

               A minor commits an offense if the minor possesses, purchases or attempts to purchase
               an electronic vaping device.

               (b)

               A minor commits an offense if the minor falsely represents himself or herself to be
               18 years of age or older for the purpose of purchasing or receiving an electronic
               vaping device.

               (c)

               It shall be a defense to prosecution for a violation of this section if at the time
               of the purchase, the minor:

               (1)

               Was in the presence of an adult parent or legal guardian of the minor;

               (2)

               Was in the course of scope of the minor's employment and the purchase of the electronic
               vaping device was a part of the duties of such employment; or

               (3)

               Was participating in an inspection or test of compliance in conjunction with local
               law enforcement.

               (Ord. No. 2014-004, § 1, 2-17-2014)"
Chapter 26,PARKS AND RECREATION,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Parks and Wildlife Code ch. 1 et seq.; municipal authority over public grounds, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code
               ch. 282."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 26-21.,Creation; membership; terms; compensation.,"A parks and recreation board is created and shall consist of nine regular members
               and three alternate members. All members shall be appointed by the city council at
               large. Four of the original regular nine members shall be appointed for one-year terms
               and five shall be appointed for two-year terms. Subsequent members shall serve for
               two-year terms and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. Alternate
               members shall be appointed for two-year terms and shall serve in the absence of one
               or more regular members when requested to do so by the board chairperson. Members
               of the board shall serve without pay.

               (Code 2008, § 97.20; Ord. No. 2004-016, 11-17-2003)"
Sec. 26-22.,Procedures.,"The parks and recreation board shall select from among its members a chairperson and
               vice-chairperson and may adopt, subject to the approval of the city council, such
               rules and regulations for the government of its proceedings as it may deem proper.

               (Code 2008, § 97.21; Ord. No. 2003-011, 2-17-2003)"
Sec. 26-23.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               Ord. No. 2013-030, § 1, adopted June 17, 2013, repealed § 26-23 in its entirety. Former
               § 26-23 pertained to dual office holding prohibited and was derived from Code 2008,
               § 97.22."
Sec. 26-80.,Vehicle and traffic laws.,"All applicable state and local vehicle and traffic laws and ordinances shall continue
               in full force and effect in all parks.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(2.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-81.,Traffic control.,"All law enforcement officers and public works department officials, as defined in section 26-52, shall have the authority to limit traffic in a park in accordance with the provisions
               of this article or any other applicable laws and ordinances in order to control pedestrian
               and vehicular movement, public safety and park capacity.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(2.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-82.,Operating or parking motor vehicles.,"No person shall operate or park a vehicle over, through or on any parks grounds except
               along or upon park roadways and designated parking areas as set forth in park rules
               and regulations.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(2.03), 10-20-2008)"
DIVISION 3.,PARK PROPERTY,NULL
DIVISION 4.,RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES,NULL
Sec. 26-24.,Duties.,"It shall be the duty of the parks and recreation board to:

                  (1)

                  Recommend policies and procedures for the proper administration of the parks and recreation
                  program of the city subject to the approval of the city council;

                  (2)

                  Encourage and facilitate the establishment and maintenance of parks, playgrounds,
                  play fields, centers, swimming pools, and other park and recreational facilities of
                  the properties owned and controlled by the city or on private or public properties
                  with the consent of the owners and managers thereof;

                  (3)

                  Encourage the establishment of a supervised recreation program for all ages, on properties
                  owned and controlled by the city or on private or public properties with the consent
                  of the owners and managers thereof;

                  (4)

                  Recommend acquisition by the city of such land and buildings as are deemed necessary
                  for a parks and recreation program and subject to location approval by the planning
                  and zoning commission;

                  (5)

                  Study and submit recommendations for improvement and expansion of the parks and recreation
                  facilities and programs of the city;

                  (6)

                  Cooperate with all agencies, groups, and clubs concerned with recreation in the city;
                  and

                  (7)

                  Make such studies concerning parks and recreation and the findings thereof as may
                  be requested by the city council.

               The parks and recreation board shall have such additional duties as may be conferred
               on such advisory committee by ordinance.

               (Code 2008, § 97.23; Ord. No. 2003-011, 2-17-2003)"
Secs. 26-25—26-51.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Sec. 26-52.,Definitions.,"The following words and terms, when used in this article, shall have the meanings
               hereinafter designated.

               AISD means the Alvarado Independent School District.

               Amplified sound means any sound projected or transmitted by artificial means, including, but not
               limited to, amplifiers, loudspeakers, or any similar devices.

               Bicycle means a device that a person may ride and that is propelled by human power and has
               two tandem wheels at least one of which is more than 14 inches in diameter. Exception
               is made for bicycles in the service of the city.

               Lake parks mean any land commonly referred to as ""Alvarado Lake Park"" that is owned and maintained
               by the city.

               Nature preserve means a parcel of land owned or operated by the city that provides for the protection
               of places of historic or natural interest, including the biological diversity of plants,
               animals and natural communities. The areas may be used for passive recreation pursuits
               by the public and may provide a field laboratory for the observation and education
               in these relationships. Development is typically minimal and limited to passive recreational
               amenities as soft-surfaced trails.

               Nonresident means any person who does not live within and whose dwelling house and home is not
               located within the corporate city limits.

               Outside group means any organization or group of persons contracting with the city to use the recreation
               facility.

               Park means any land selected, obtained, or acquired by the city for use as a public park,
               or recreation or playground area, and any building or facility thereon, owned and
               maintained by the city as a public park or recreation or playground area, whether
               or not such areas have been formally dedicated to such purpose.

               Parking area means any designated portion of any park or any park road or drive that is set aside
               for the parking of vehicles.

               Permit means written permission from the director or city manager to carry out a given activity
               in a park.

               Pollution means contamination or other alteration of the physical, chemical, or biological
               properties of park waters, including changes in the temperature, taste, color, turbidity,
               or odor of the water, or such discharge of any liquid, gas, solid, radioactive or
               other substance into any park waters that will or is likely to create a public nuisance
               or render such waters harmful, detrimental, or injurious to the public health, safety,
               or welfare, or to domestic, recreational, or other beneficial uses, or to wild animals,
               birds, fish, or other aquatic life.

               Public works department official means an employee of the public works department or an appointee of the city manager
               to whom authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this article has been
               granted by the city manager.

               Recreation center includes but is not limited to the city's multipurpose and senior recreation centers.

               Resident means any person who lives within and whose dwelling house and home is located within
               the corporate city limits of Alvarado, Texas.

               Vehicle includes any wheeled device of conveyance, propelled by motor or engine. The term
               shall include any trailer of any kind, size, or description. Exception is made for
               vehicles in the service of the city and for motorized wheelchairs and scooters utilized
               in assisting disabled persons.

               Vessel includes any device of human conveyance on the water, propelled by motor, wind, or
               human power. The term includes, but is not limited to, any boat, yacht, cruiser, canoe,
               raft or other watercraft.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(1.01), 10-20-2008; Ord. No. 2013-022, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 26-53.,Authority to issue citations.,"The director, city manager, or his authorized representative shall have the power
               to issue one or more citations for violations of city ordinances to any person to
               appear in the court, if the director or representative has probable cause to believe
               that the person is criminally responsible for any offense within the jurisdiction
               of the court.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(9.02), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-54—26-79.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,CONTROL OF VEHICLES,NULL
Sec. 26-114.,Sanitation.,"No person shall in any city park:

                  (1)

                  Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain,
                  pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or adjacent to any park, any substance,
                  matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such
                  waters.

                  (2)

                  Dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt,
                  rubbish, waste, garbage refuse or other trash, except in designated containers.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.03), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-115.,Fishing.,"Fishing shall be permitted in areas as designated through department rules and regulations
               and park signage, subject to compliance with all state and city laws and regulations.
               Fishing shall be permitted only from designated fishing docks or piers or the banks
               of any creek, pond, lake, or other body of water in designated city parks. Except
               for Lake Alvarado, no fishing shall be permitted on any boat ramp or dock located
               on Lake Alvarado and no fishing other than catch and release in other areas of the
               lake shall be permitted.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.04), 10-20-2008; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-016
                  
               , § 1, 7-18-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2019-009
                  
               , § 1, 9-16-2019)"
Sec. 26-116.,Weapons.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a concealed handgun in a city park, except
               those persons who are duly licensed by the state to carry a concealed handgun in accordance
               with the provisions of the state concealed weapons act or other state or federal law.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.05), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-117.,Restroom use.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, remain or linger in, near, or about
               a public restroom located at or in a city park facility for the purpose of engaging
               or soliciting any lewd and lascivious or criminal activity.

               (b)

               Any person over the age of six years shall not use the restrooms and washrooms designated
               for the opposite sex, unless assistance is necessary.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.06), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-118.,Glass containers.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to possess on the premises of any swimming pool,
               recreational center, playground, athletic field, or any other city park area, any
               glass container. It shall also be unlawful to willfully break any glass or glass container
               in any city park area.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(3.07), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-141.,Swimming.,"No person in the park shall:

                  (1)

                  Swim or wade in any water or waterway or in adjacent to any park, except such water
                  or waterway as may be designated in accordance with the terms of this article, park
                  rules and regulations, or as authorized by permit issued in accordance with this article.

                  (2)

                  Swim or wade, except during those hours established for such activities by ordinance,
                  park rules and regulations or authorized by permit issued in accordance with this
                  article.

                  (3)

                  Swim within five feet of a boat ramp except that swimming within 25 feet of a boat
                  ramp or dock on Lake Alvarado shall be prohibited.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.01), 10-20-2008; Ord. No.
               
                  2019-009
                  
               , § 2, 9-16-2019)"
Sec. 26-142.,Boating.,"No person shall bring into or operate any vessel upon any park waters, except by permit
               from the director or city manager. Boating is allowed in Lake Alvarado, however any
               boat ramp or dock on Lake Alvarado shall be used only for the purpose of loading and
               unloading boats. In Stonegate Park only non-motorized boating in vessels that do not
               exceed 12 feet in length shall be allowed.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.02), 10-20-2008; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-015
                  
               , § 1, 7-18-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2019-009
                  
               , § 1, 9-16-2019)"
Sec. 26-143.,Fires.,"(a)

               No person shall start or maintain in any park any outdoor fire, except for cooking
               fires which stall be started and maintained only in a stove, fire pit, barbecue pit
               or in a portable camp stove.

               (b)

               No person starting or maintaining any fire in a park shall leave the fire unattended
               without first completely extinguishing the fire.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.03), 10-20-2008)"
DIVISION 5.,NUISANCES AND BEHAVIOR,NULL
Sec. 26-176.,Alcoholic beverages.,"It is a violation of department rules and regulations to sell, consume, or possess
               alcoholic beverages in any park. Violation of this provision may result in removal
               from park property.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(5.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-177.,Military maneuvers.,"Military maneuvers and exercises are prohibited in any park.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(5.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-144.,Animals and pets.,"(a)

               No person in a park shall:

               (1)

               Abandon any animal in the park.

               (2)

               Permit animal defecation caused by an animal owned or possessed by him to remain on
               park property, unless properly disposed of in a trash receptacle. This prohibition
               shall not apply to service dogs.

               (3)

               Fail to have in his possession materials or implements that, either alone or in combination
               with each other, can be used immediately in a sanitary and lawful manner to remove
               and dispose of defecation the animal owned or possessed by him may deposit on park
               property.

               (4)

               Permit an animal owned or possessed by him to enter or remain on a league athletic
               playing field/facility enclosed by a fence. A league athletic playing field/facility
               is designed and maintained for league play of sports activities approved by the director
               or city manager such as football, soccer, tennis, softball and baseball.

               (5)

               Permit an animal owned or possessed by him to run at large, not permit any such animal
               in a park unless it shall at all times be restricted or kept on a leash no greater
               than 15 feet in length. Nor shall any person allow an animal owned or possessed by
               him to remain unattended on park property.

               (b)

               It is an exception to subsection (a)(5) of this section that:

               (1)

               The animal is a police service animal under the supervision of a police officer in
               the performance of his official duties;

               (2)

               The animal is a water fowl at a city-owned facility;

               (3)

               The animal is a service dog performing duties of assisting the disabled;

               (4)

               The animal is a dog lawfully allowed in an off-leash site.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.04), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-145.,Games.,"No person shall:

                  (1)

                  Operate a motor-driven model airplane;

                  (2)

                  Engage in the sport of archery;

                  (3)

                  Launch, discharge, or cause to be launched or discharged paint, paintballs, or any
                  other projectile; or

                  (4)

                  Hit a golf ball;

               in a city park.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.05), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-146.,Skating activity.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate a skateboard, roller skates,
               inline skates or other skating devices on any brickwork, cobblestone, or ornamental
               surface, retaining wall, picnic table, tennis court, basketball court, fountain area,
               planter, sculpture, or other similar surface or structure located in a city park.
               Skateboarding is restricted to areas designated as a skate park.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(4.06), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-147—26-175.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 26-178.,Posting and possession of permits.,"Permits required by this article shall be posted or otherwise maintained in the area
               where the activity is conducted or produces and exhibited upon the demand of any law
               enforcement officer or other authorized park employee. Permits shall not be affixed
               to trees, signs or other structures on park property by the use of nails, tacks, or
               other device which may result in the damage to or defacing of such trees, signs or
               other structure on park property.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(5.03), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-179.,Interference with park users.,"No person shall prevent, disturb or unreasonably interfere with any other persons
               occupying any area of a park or participating in any lawful activity within the park.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(5.04), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-180.,Amplified sound.,"It is unlawful for any person to cause, or for any person in charge of a group of
               persons to allow sound from an officially sanctioned event to originate in a city
               park which exceeds an L eq of 95 dB(A) for one minutes as measured 50 feet from the
               source or sources, whether or not the sounds are live or recorded. In addition, sound
               levels shall not exceed a 60 dB average at the perimeter of the property.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(5.05), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-181—26-198.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 6.,PERMITS,NULL
Sec. 26-199.,Required.,"In addition to any other provision of this article that requires the obtaining of
               a permit prior to engaging in a given activity, no person in a park shall conduct,
               operate, present, manage or take part in any of the following activities, unless a
               permit is obtained from the city secretary.

                  (1)

                  Any organized sporting event using park ball field facilities for which permits are
                  required.

                  (2)

                  Any exhibit, dramatic performance, play, motion picture, radio or television broadcast,
                  fair, circus, musical event or any similar event.

                  (3)

                  Any public meeting, assembly, parade, ceremonies, addresses, speeches, political meetings
                  other mass gathering. A mass gathering is an organized party which is composed of
                  500 or more persons.

                  (4)

                  Any use of any park facility by a group of persons which are to be exclusive of others.

                  (5)

                  Any use of amplified sound.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(6.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-200.,Application procedure.,"(a)

               A person seeking the issuance of a permit to conduct an activity in a park shall file
               an application with the city secretary. The application shall state:

               (1)

               The name, address and telephone number of the person and organization applying for
               the permit;

               (2)

               If the use or activity is to be conducted for, on behalf of or by any person other
               than the applicant, the name, address and telephone number for that person;

               (3)

               The exact nature of the use or activity for which the permit is being sought;

               (4)

               The date and hours for which the permit is desired;

               (5)

               The park and the portion of the park desired to be used to conduct the proposed use
               or activity;

               (6)

               An estimate of the anticipated attendance; and

               (7)

               Any other information that the city secretary finds to be reasonably necessary in
               order to determine whether to issue a permit.

               (b)

               Permit applications shall be filed with the city secretary for consideration not less
               than ten business days or more than 365 days before the date of the proposed use or
               activity. The city secretary shall evaluate the application and render a decision
               in accordance with section 26-201.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(6.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-201.,Standards for issuance of permit and procedures.,"(a)

               A permit shall be issued, unless:

               (1)

               The proposed activity or use of the park will unreasonably interfere with or detract
               from the general public use and enjoyment of the park;

               (2)

               The proposed activity or use of the park will unreasonably interfere with or detract
               from the public health, safety, or welfare;

               (3)

               The conduct of the proposed activity or use is reasonably likely to result in or create
               a clear and present danger of violence by the applicant to persons or property resulting
               in serious harm to the public;

               (4)

               The facilities requested by the applicant have been reserved for another activity
               or for use at the day and hour requested by the application;

               (5)

               False or misleading information is contained in the application or required information
               is omitted;

               (6)

               The event would violate any federal, state, or municipal law; or

               (7)

               The nature of the event could cause unreasonable or undue environment damage to the
               site.

               (b)

               The director or city manager may impose reasonable conditions or restrictions on the
               granting of a permit, including but not limited to any of the following:

               (1)

               Restrictions on fires, fireworks, amplified sound, dancing, sports, use of animals,
               equipment or vehicles, the number of persons present, the location of any bandstand
               or stage or any other use which appears likely to create a risk of unreasonable harm
               to the use and enjoyment of the park property;

               (2)

               A requirement that the applicant post a deposit of security as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time for the
               repair of any damage to park property or the cost of clean-up or both;

               (3)

               A requirement that the applicant pay a fee as set by the director or city manager
               to defray the cost of furnishing adequate security forces by the city at the proposed
               use or activity; the number and type of security personnel required shall be determined
               by the type of event, the anticipated attendance, time of day, or other pertinent
               factors determined by the director or city manager or his designee;

               (4)

               A requirement that the applicant furnish additional sanitary and refuse facilities
               that may be reasonably necessary, based on the use or activity for which the permit
               is being sought;

               (5)

               A requirement that the applicant pay a fee as currently established or as hereafter
               adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time to cover the administrative
               costs of the permit application and site support by the city at the proposed use or
               activity;

               (6)

               A requirement that the applicant furnish a valid certificate of insurance with amounts
               and categories of coverage as determined necessary by the city.

               (c)

               Permits shall not be transferable without the written consent of the director or city
               manager.

               (d)

               A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all applicable ordinances
               fully as though the same were inserted in his permit.

               (e)

               The person to whom a permit is issued shall be liable for any loss, damage, or injury
               to any person or property whatsoever by reason of the negligence of the person to
               whom such permit was issued.

               (f)

               The director or city manager shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon finding
               of violation of any rule, ordinance, state or federal law, or upon the violation of
               any condition or restriction under which the permit was issued.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(6.03), 10-20-2008)"
Secs. 26-202—26-225.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 7.,PARK AND FACILITY OPERATING POLICIES,NULL
Secs. 26-239—26-251.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 9.,ATHLETIC FIELD USE,NULL
Sec. 26-254.,Policy administration.,"The administration of this article shall be the responsibility of the public works
               department. The department shall prepare, implement, and enforce such specific rules
               and regulations for the use of facilities for each sport or type of facility, as it
               deems necessary.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.03), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-226.,Park closings.,"(a)

               Any city park, section or part thereof may be declared closed to the public by the
               director or city manager or a law enforcement officer at any time and for any interval
               of time upon a temporary basis (daily or otherwise) either entirely or merely to certain
               uses as the director, city manager, or law enforcement officer shall find reasonably
               necessary.

               (b)

               Any city park, section or part thereof may be declared closed to the public upon a
               regular basis, either entirely or merely to certain uses as may be found reasonably
               necessary, by ordinance of the city council.

               (c)

               No person shall enter or remain in any park closed in accordance with this section
               where there is notice signs posted or by oral or written communication by a public
               works department employee or law enforcement officer.

               (d)

               Park closing hours will be established according to the park classification system
               as follows:

               (1)

               Neighborhood, linear and natural area parks shall be closed between 10:00 p.m. and
               5:00 a.m. daily.

               (2)

               Community and city parks shall be closed between 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. daily.

               (3)

               Lake parks shall be closed between 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. daily for all activities
               except fishing related activities.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(7.01), 10-20-2008; Ord. No. 2013-022, § 2, 5-20-2013)"
Secs. 26-227—26-235.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 8.,RECREATION FACILITY USE,NULL
Sec. 26-263.,"Advertising, signage, and fence screens.","All requests for permission to place advertising signage on city facilities shall
               be made to the director or city manager. Advertising signage shall be subject to written
               city approval and are permitted on the fence only during the season of the sport.
               All sales of signs will be limited to one year.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.12), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 40-180.,Cesspools prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to dig or install any cesspool within the city
               or repair any existing cesspool.

               (Code 2008, § 51.95)"
Secs. 40-181—40-198.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority of city to control and regulate waste discharges and require pretreatment,
               V.T.C.A., Water Code §§ 26.176, 26.177."
Sec. 26-236.,Proof of residence.,"(a)

               As used herein, a person desiring to use or participate in any activity held in a
               recreational facility may prove that he or she is or is not a resident and resides
               or does not reside within the corporate city limits by presenting the person in charge
               of the facility with one or more, if requested, of the following bearing that person's
               true and correct address:

               (1)

               A driver's license or identification card issued by the state department of public
               safety bearing a photograph of that person and showing the address of the person;

               (2)

               A utility envelope or receipt bearing a canceled United States postal seal showing
               the address of that person and a photo ID;

               (3)

               A recent city water bill stub showing the name and address of that person and a photo
               ID;

               (4)

               A tax statement showing the name and address of that person and a photo ID;

               (5)

               A voter registration certificate showing the name and address of that person and a
               photo ID.

               (b)

               Any person not having any of the foregoing, or being unable to furnish same, may furnish
               proof of residency, as herein defined, by using any one of the above methods bearing
               that person's parents' or legal guardian's correct address, excluding a photo ID.
               The director of public works, or his designee, may make such further rules and regulations
               as are necessary for the uniform determination of those persons who are residents
               and nonresidents.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(8.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-237.,Structured and supervised activities.,"(a)

               Fees may be charged to residents and nonresidents registering for the structured activities.
               A nonresident may be charged a fee equal to or greater than the amount of that fee
               charged a resident for the same activity. If a resident is not charged a fee for the
               activity, then the nonresident may be charged a reasonable fee. Fees are as currently
               established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to
               time and are payable to the city.

               (b)

               Nothing herein shall prohibit the director from setting the maximum number of participants
               in a given activity.

               (c)

               Nothing herein shall prohibit the director from setting fees and charges for permits,
               events and structured activities conducted in parks or in recreation centers.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(8.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-238.,Conduct at recreation centers.,"No person upon the property of a recreation center facility shall engage in any activity
               or use of recreation facilities or equipment which will unreasonably interfere with
               or detract from the public health, safety, welfare, use, or enjoyment of such recreation
               center.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(8.03), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-252.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Co-sponsored organization means any organized group that has entered into a facility use agreement with the
               city utilizing the city-owned or leased facilities, and in some way providing a service,
               program, or revenue benefiting the city.

               Facility use agreement means the official agreement between the city and an organization which is designed
               to ensure that facilities owned and/or operated by the city are utilized efficiently
               and safely. The purpose of this agreement shall be to provide the terms and conditions
               under which an organization can use facilities for authorized activities, define operational
               and maintenance responsibilities, identify responsibility for costs, and to identify
               a process to provide improvements and upgrades to facilities and services.

               Game facility is defined as lighted and unlighted athletic fields maintained and programmed to
               accommodate competitive and recreational sporting events such as league play, tournaments,
               practices, camps, and clinics. These fields receive a higher level of maintenance
               than general park open space. Game facilities are designated by the department, and
               are subject to usage fees.

               Organization means any organization or group of persons contracting with the city to use park
               and recreational facilities.

               Season means a recurrent period of time characterized by league practices and games associated
               with registration fees for a particular sport as agreed upon by the designated representative
               from both parties.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.01), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-253.,Purpose.,"This article is hereby adopted to serve as a guide for the comprehensive and effective
               usage of indoor and outdoor athletic facilities owned, leased, scheduled, or otherwise
               controlled by the city. It is the intent of this article to provide a basis for establishing
               the following objectives:

                  (1)

                  A method of equitably allocating the available inventory of game facilities to recognized
                  requestors for the usage of such facilities.

                  (2)

                  A disciplined method of communicating the forecasted seasons and immediate facility
                  schedules for recognized users of the facilities and the appropriate departments within
                  the city administration.

                  (3)

                  A method whereby game facilities will be scheduled in a manner that will ensure proper
                  turf maintenance and growth, thereby ensuring availability in future years and reducing
                  the need for major restoration.

                  (4)

                  A method for continuously improving efficient utilization of existing game facilities
                  to the betterment of the city.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.02), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-255.,Financial responsibility.,"The purpose of requiring financial records is to allow participants the opportunity
               to effectively monitor use of their money and to ensure that public facilities are
               not being used as a profit generator for any individual, group, or organization. It
               is intended that all funds raised by the individual, group, or organization be used
               directly for the athletic program that is the subject of the facility use agreement.
               In that manner, the city requires that the organization employ financial management
               systems that reasonably safeguard its financial resources. Financial records should
               be developed and maintained in a way that is accessible and understandable to program
               participants. The organization, upon request by the city, agrees to furnish a copy
               of financial statements detailing revenues and expenditures to the city.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.04), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-256.,Facility maintenance.,"Subject to the conditions and provisions set out in this article, maintenance of various
               game facilities owned by the city shall be subject to the following:

                  (1)

                  Maintenance of all game facilities owned or operated by the city will be performed
                  only by the department unless organizations enter into a written maintenance agreement
                  with the department. No modifications, alterations, additions, or deletions (temporary
                  or otherwise), may be made to any facility scheduled by the city unless written approval
                  is obtained from the department in accordance with the policy for construction/maintenance
                  approval process for organizations.

                  (2)

                  Certain athletic sites or fields as determined by the director or his designee, may
                  receive enhanced maintenance in cooperation with specific organizations. These fields
                  shall be used only on a scheduled basis and shall be identifiable by special signage.
                  These fields or sites may be gated or fenced with controlled access to protect the
                  benefits of enhanced maintenance from unauthorized activity, practices and vandalism.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.05), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-262.,Coaches training.,"In an attempt to ensure a positive experience for the community's youth, organizations
               shall implement training programs to help prepare volunteers as coaches and mentors.
               These programs should be designed to provide a foundation in coaching principles,
               sports first aid, sport-specific techniques, and communication.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.11), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-257.,Facility closure.,"Departmental staff may close a facility/field at any time due to weather and/or poor
               field conditions. Gated facilities are considered closed when the gates to the facility
               are not open. Non-gated facilities will be posted with signage at individual fields.

                  (1)

                  The department may cancel a game, event, tournament or meet at any time in the interest
                  of ensuring the quality and safety of the facilities.

                  (2)

                  The decision to cancel the game, event, tournament or meet shall be made by authorized
                  members from the department. Authorized representatives from the organization may
                  be contacted for their input in making the decision.

                  (3)

                  Whenever possible, games, events, tournaments or the meet will first be delayed or
                  postponed. The decision to resume play or the meet will rest with the department.

                  (4)

                  Failure to comply with this policy will result in the denial of future use of the
                  facilities for tournaments or meets.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.6), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-258.,Concessions.,"The department shall control concession rights for all parks and recreational facilities.
               No concession may be sold in any park or facility by any individual, group or organization
               except with the written approval of the director or city manager. If an organization
               wishes to provide concession services at or on city facilities, a separate food and
               beverage concession contract must be executed with the city prior to such operation.
               Approval must be granted by the city for any and all concession stands and/or trailers
               and follow city, county and state health codes.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.07), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-259.,Insurance.,"Organizations conducting organized leagues must provide and keep in force for the
               duration of the season with an insurance company duly licensed in the state and rated
               A- or better by AM Best, general liability insurance in an amount specified by the
               city's risk manager. Insurance limits will be reviewed on an annual basis and adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time. In addition, the policy shall
               include the city as an additional named insured. No games or activities may be played
               until an acceptable proof of insurance has been received by the public works department
               and approved by the city's risk manager.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.8), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-260.,Field lighting usage provisions.,"Subject to the conditions and provisions set out in this article, the use of lights
               at various athletic games facilities used in activities covered by this article shall
               be subject to the following:

                  (1)

                  All use of lights, whether for practice or games, shall cease and lights shall be
                  turned off at 11:45 p.m.;

                  (2)

                  Only with the approval of the department, and only under certain conditions and/or
                  for certain special uses, will the light usage time be extended beyond 11:45 p.m.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.9), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-261.,Criminal background checks.,"One of the primary goals of the city is to continually ensure the safety and welfare
               of its youth during their participation in all sports and athletic activities that
               occur on or in city athletic fields. Organizations shall adopt and publish a criminal
               background check policy to be used for determining an individual's eligibility to
               volunteer.

                  (1)

                  The organization shall conduct criminal background checks on all persons acting as
                  head coaches, assistant coaches, managers, board members, umpires, referees, employees
                  and any other person acting in an official capacity of the organization prior to assuming
                  their responsibilities and shall remain valid for the calendar year.

                  (2)

                  The organization shall employ a reputable company licensed by the state to conduct
                  such checks, and will be responsible for paying the expense of all checks.

                  (3)

                  In the event that the organization determines it is necessary to disqualify a prospective
                  volunteer or to disqualify a volunteer previously certified to the city as meeting
                  the requirements of the policy, the organization must notify the person in writing
                  (basic facts about the disqualifications shall be given to the volunteer, but detailed
                  facts shall not be required). The written notification must also advise the disqualified
                  person of the right to appeal.

                  (4)

                  The organization shall furnish to the city a listing of the persons that have successfully
                  undergone a criminal background check prior to the beginning of any individual's involvement
                  with any youth related activities. An organization board member shall sign this listing
                  for final verification of the activities taken by the organization. Copies of the
                  results must be kept on file for a period of three years, and must be available for
                  review upon request by the city.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.10), 10-20-2008)"
Sec. 26-264.,Penalty.,"Any sponsoring individual, group, or organization violating any provision of the rules
               and regulations contained in this article may be penalized in the following manner:

                  (1)

                  Any individual, group, or organization may be notified of the violation in a written
                  notice by the department.

                  (2)

                  Any individual, group, or organization, upon written notification may be provided
                  an opportunity to resolve the violation determined by the director or city manager.

                  (3)

                  Any individual, group, or organization violating any of the rules and regulations
                  contained in this article may be refused the scheduled usage of athletic facilities
                  if such action is deemed necessary by the director or city manager upon the review
                  and disposition of the violation.

               (Ord. No. 2008-036, exh. A(10.13), 10-20-2008)"
Chapter 28,"PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS","Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority to regulate hawkers and peddlers, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 215.031;
               regulation of sales and solicitation, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1801 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
ARTICLE II.,PERMIT,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, adopted February 18, 2013, set out provisions for use herein.
               At the editor's discretion those provisions were treated as repealing and replacing
               art. II, §§ 28-21—28-34. Former art. II, pertained to similar subject matter and was
               derived from Code 2008, §§ 112.02—112.15 and Ord. No. 2007-33, adopted October 15,
               2007."
Sec. 28-21.,Required.,"No person shall act as a peddler, hawker, or solicitor within the city without first
               obtaining a permit in accordance with this chapter. A canvasser is not required to
               have a permit but any canvasser wanting a permit for the purpose of reassuring city
               residents of the canvasser's good faith shall be issued one upon request.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 30-10.,Revolving beacons.,"Revolving beacons shall not be used in a manner that will create a traffic hazard
               or where their use may be confused with traffic control devices or emergency vehicle
               signals. Revolving beacons shall not employ lights of color used in traffic signals.

               (Code 2008, § 111.10)"
Sec. 28-1.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the meanings
               ascribed to them in this section except where context clearly indicates a different
               meaning:

               Canvasser means a person who attempts to make personal contact with a resident at his/her residence
               without prior specific invitation or appointment from the resident, for the primary
               purpose of:

                  (1)

                  Attempting to enlist support for or against a particular religion, philosophy, ideology,
                  political party, issue or candidate, even if incidental to such purpose the canvasser
                  accepts the donation of money for or against such cause, or

                  (2)

                  Distributing a handbill or flyer advertising a non-commercial event or service.

               Handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet,
               pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or
               copies of any manner.

               Itinerant vendor or hawker means a person who sets up and operates a temporary business on privately owned property,
               whether improved or unimproved, in the city, soliciting, selling, or taking orders
               for, or offering to sell or take orders for any goods or services. A temporary business
               is one that continues for 45 days or less; and, exists whether solicitation is from
               a stand, vehicle, or freestanding.

               Peddler means a person who attempts to make personal contact with a resident at his/her residence
               without prior specific invitation or appointment from the resident, for the primary
               purpose of attempting to sell a good or service. A ""peddler"" does not include a person
               who distributes handbills or flyers for a commercial purpose, advertising an event,
               activity, good or service that is offered to the resident for purchase at a location
               away from the residence or at a time different from the time of visit. Such a person
               is a ""solicitor.""

               Solicitor means a person who attempts to make personal contact with a resident at his or her
               residence without prior specific invitation or appointment from the resident, for
               the primary purpose of:

                  (1)

                  Attempting to obtain a donation to a particular patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
                  welfare, benevolent, educational, civic, fraternal, charitable, political or religious
                  purpose, even if incidental to such purpose there is the sale of some good or service,
                  or

                  (2)

                  Distributing a handbill or flyer advertising a commercial event or service.

               (Code 2008, § 112.01; Ord. No. 2013-015, § 1, 2-18-2013)"
Secs. 28-2—28-20.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 28-22.,Permit application.,"(a)

               Any person or organization (formal or informal) required or permitted to obtain a
               permit pursuant to section 28-21 may apply for one or more permits by completing an application form at the office
               of the city secretary containing the information detailed in section 28-23, during regular office hours.

               (b)

               The permit shall be issued promptly after application but in all cases within 30 days
               of completion of an application, unless it is determined within that time that:

               (1)

               An investigation reveals that the applicant or the applicant's employer, principal
               or organization falsified information on the application;

               (2)

               Within ten years preceding the date of application, the applicant or the applicant's
               employer, principal or organization has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, or has
               been convicted of, a felony or misdemeanor fraud, deceit, theft, embezzlement, burglary,
               larceny, fraudulent conversion, misrepresentation, or misappropriation of property;

               (3)

               Within ten years preceding the date of application, a civil judgment or administrative
               decision involving fraud, deceit, theft, embezzlement, burglary, larceny, fraudulent
               conversion, misrepresentation, or misappropriation of property has been entered or
               ordered against the applicant or the applicant's employer, principal or organization;

               (4)

               The applicant provided no proof of authority to act on behalf of the employer, principal
               or organization;

               (5)

               The type of activity requires a bond, and the applicant or the applicant's employer,
               principal or organization has not complied with the bond requirements; or

               (6)

               The application does not contain the information or documents required by section 28-23.

               (c)

               The denial and the reasons for the denial shall be noted on the application, and the
               applicant shall be notified of the denial by notice mailed to the applicant and the
               applicant's employer, principal or organization at the address shown on the application
               or the last known address. The notice of denial shall be mailed within 30 days of
               the receipt of the application.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-23.,Contents of application.,"(a)

               The applicant (person or organization) shall provide the following information for
               each permit requested:

               (1)

               Name of applicant;

               (2)

               Number of permits required;

               (3)

               The name, physical description and photograph of each person for which a permit is
               requested. In lieu of this information, a driver's license, state identification card,
               passport, or other government-issued identification card (issued by a government within
               the United States) containing this information may be provided, and a photocopy taken.
               If a photograph is not supplied, the city will take an instant photograph of each
               person for which a permit is requested at the application site. The actual cost of
               the instant photograph will be paid by the applicant;

               (4)

               The permanent and (if any) local address of the applicant;

               (5)

               The permanent and (if any) local address of each person for whom a permit is requested;

               (6)

               A brief description of the proposed activity related to this permit. (Copies of literature
               to be distributed may be substituted for this description at the option of the applicant);

               (7)

               Date and place of birth for each person for whom a permit is requested;

               (8)

               The motor vehicle make, model, year, color, and state license plate number of any
               vehicle which will be used by each person for whom a permit is requested;

               (9)

               The name of the immediate last preceding three municipalities in which the applicant
               conducted similar activities;

               (10)

               The approximate time period within which the activity is to be made, stating the date
               of the beginning of the activity, its projected conclusion and the proposed dates
               and times of the activity;

               (11)

               Whether the applicant, upon any order obtained, will demand, accept or receive payment
               or the deposit of money in advance of final delivery, and if so, a copy of the bond
               required by section 28-25;

               (12)

               If the applicant, or the applicant's employer or principal has pleaded guilty, or
               nolo contendere to, or has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving fraud,
               deceit, theft, embezzlement, burglary, larceny, fraudulent conversion, misrepresentation,
               or misappropriation of property within ten years preceding the date of application,
               a description of each such conviction or plea, the name of the court and jurisdiction
               in which the complaint or indictment was filed and the date of the offense;

               (13)

               If the applicant, or the applicant's employer or principal is a person against whom
               a civil judgment or administrative decision based upon fraud, deceit, theft, embezzlement,
               burglary, larceny, fraudulent conversion, misrepresentation, or misappropriation of
               property has been entered or ordered within ten years preceding the date of application,
               a description of any judgment or action, the case or cause number, if any, and the
               court or administrative agency that rendered the judgment or decision; and

               (14)

               If the activity is to be conducted on behalf of a non-profit organization, proof of
               such status shall be attached to the application.

               (b)

               If a permit is requested for a peddler:

               (1)

               The name and permanent address of the business offering the event, activity, good
               or service (i.e., the peddler's principal);

               (2)

               A copy of the principal's sales tax license as issued by the state, provided that
               no copy of a sales tax license shall be required of any business which appears on
               the city's annual report of sales tax payees as provided by the state comptroller's
               office; and

               (3)

               The location where books and records are kept of sales which occur within the city
               and which are available for city inspection to determine that all city sales taxes
               have been paid.

               (c)

               If a permit is requested for a solicitor or canvasser:

               (1)

               The name and permanent address of the organization, person, or group for whom donations
               (or proceeds) are accepted; and

               (2)

               The web address for this organization, person, or group (or other address) where residents
               having subsequent questions can go for more information.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-24.,Investigation of applicant.,"(a)

               It shall be the duty of the city secretary to investigate each person that has made
               an application for a permit.

               (b)

               Upon completion of the investigation, the city secretary shall issue or refuse to
               issue a permit. All permits issued shall be valid for a period of one-year, unless
               revoked sooner.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-25.,Bond.,"(a)

               Applicants who require cash deposits or advance payments for future delivery of goods
               or for services to be performed in the future or who require an agreement to finance
               the sale of goods for future delivery or for services to be performed in the future,
               shall furnish to the city a bond with the application in the amount determined in
               subsection (b), signed by the applicant and a surety company authorized to do business
               in the state:

               (1)

               Conditioned upon the final delivery of goods or services in accordance with the terms
               of any order obtained;

               (2)

               To indemnify purchasers for defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the
               goods sold and that are discovered within 30 days after delivery; and

               (3)

               For the use and benefit of persons, firms, or corporations that may make a purchase
               or give an order to the principal of the bond or to the agent or employee of the principal
               of the bond.

               (b)

               Such bond shall be in the sum as currently established or as hereafter adopted by
               resolution of the city council from time to time and shall remain in full force and
               effect for the entire duration of the permit.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-26.,Fee.,"(a)

               The fee for the issuance of each permit shall be:

               (1)

               For a peddler acting on behalf of a merchant a fee of $75.00 with more agents, in
               addition will be $10.00 for each agent.

               (2)

               For a canvasser requesting a permit, no fee shall be charged.

               (b)

               A non-profit organization or a solicitor acting on behalf of a non-profit organization
               is exempt from payment of the application fee and the bond requirement set forth in section 28-25.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-27.,Revocation of permit.,"A permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the city secretary,
               after notice and hearing, for any of the following reasons:

                  (1)

                  Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the application for a permit;

                  (2)

                  Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made by a peddler, hawker, or solicitor
                  in the course of conducting his activities;

                  (3)

                  A plea or conviction of a crime described in section 28-23(12);

                  (4)

                  A judgment involving a matter described in section 28-23(13);

                  (5)

                  The type of activity requires a bond, and the bond requirements have not been complied
                  with or the bond has expired or is no longer valid; or

                  (6)

                  A violation of any of the regulations set forth in this chapter.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-28.,Appeals.,"(a)

               A person who is denied a permit or whose permit is revoked or suspended by the city
               secretary may appeal the decision to the municipal court by filing notice of appeal
               with the clerk of the municipal court within ten days after the notice of the decision
               is mailed to the address indicated on the application or the last known address.

               (b)

               Within ten days of the receipt of the notice of appeal, the clerk of the municipal
               court shall set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal which shall be not later
               than 40 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.

               (c)

               Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be delivered to the person by mail,
               sent to the address indicated on the application or the last known address of the
               appellant.

               (d)

               The decision of the municipal court on the appeal is final. No other administrative
               procedures are provided by the city.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-29.,Permit must be displayed.,"(a)

               The permit shall be worn constantly in a conspicuous place by the permit holder while
               conducting peddler, hawker, or solicitor activities in the city. A person commits
               an offense if the person engages in peddler, hawker, or solicitor activities and fails
               or refuses to show or display the permit upon the request of any person.

               (b)

               A permit shall be used only by the peddler, hawker, solicitor, or canvasser for whom
               it was issued and may not be transferred to another person. A person commits an offense
               if the person wears or displays a permit issued to another person.

               (c)

               A person who uses a vehicle in conducting peddler or solicitor activities shall post
               a sign located in a conspicuous place on or in the window of the vehicle, identifying
               the name of the person, company or organization that the person represents. If the
               name is an individual person, it must be followed by the word ""solicitor."" The lettering
               on the sign must be at least two and one-half inches high. A person commits an offense
               if the person violates this subsection.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 40-245.,Collection schedule.,"The collection and removal of garbage, trash, and brush from premises used for residential
               purposes shall be made one time each week, except New Year's Day, Independence Day,
               Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.

               (Code 2008, § 50.05)"
Sec. 40-246.,"Rates for collection, hauling and/or disposal of garbage and trash.","The monthly charge for the collection, removal, and disposal of garbage and trash
               from residences and businesses within the corporate limits of the city shall be as
               currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from
               time to time.

               (Code 2008, § 50.06)"
Sec. 28-30.,General regulations.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, or solicitor
               at a residence:

               (1)

               Before 8:00 a.m. or 30 minutes after sunrise, whichever is later; or

               (2)

               After dark or 8:00 p.m., whichever is earlier on a given day.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, solicitor, or
               canvasser at a premises with a posted notice that such activity is not welcomed or
               invited. It shall be presumed that there is notice that peddler, hawker, solicitor
               or canvasser activity is not welcomed or invited when there is exhibited in a conspicuous
               place on or near the main entrance of the premises, a sign, not less than four inches
               by three inches in size, containing the words ""NO SOLICITORS,"" ""NO TRESPASSING,"" or
               words of similar meaning in letters not less than two-thirds of one-inch in height.

               (c)

               A person who is not the owner or tenant of a premises commits an offense if the person
               removes, defaces or otherwise renders illegible a sign placed by the owner or tenant
               of the premises pursuant to subsection (b).

               (d)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, solicitor, or
               canvasser and remains or lingers on premises after being informed by the owner or
               tenant that they are not welcome.

               (e)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, solicitor, or
               canvasser in an aggressive or intimidating manner. The term ""aggressive or intimidating
               manner"" means:

               (1)

               Blocking the path of a person who is the object of the activity; or

               (2)

               Following behind, ahead or alongside a person who walks away from the solicitor after
               being solicited, approached, accosted or offered a handbill, leaflet or any other
               item.

               (f)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, solicitor, or
               canvasser and distributes, deposits, places, throws, scatters, or casts a handbill
               at a residence except by:

               (1)

               Handing or transmitting the handbill directly to the owner or occupant then present
               in or upon the premises; or

               (2)

               Without using adhesive or tape, placing or depositing the handbill in a manner that
               secures the handbill and prevents it from being blown away, except that mailboxes
               may not be used when the use is prohibited by federal postal laws or regulations.

               (g)

               A person commits an offense if the person secures a handbill at a residence in the
               manner described by subsection (f)(2):

               (1)

               In a place that is more than five feet from the front door of the residence; or

               (2)

               When another handbill has already been left or secured at the residence and has not
               been removed from the outside of the residence.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-31.,Solicitation from a vehicle.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, or solicitor
               using a vehicle and:

               (1)

               The peddling, hawking, or solicitation is conducted at a location within the right
               of way of any street or highway in the city which is designated as a highway or freeway,
               major or minor arterial on the city's thoroughfare plan; or

               (2)

               The person stops the vehicle within a roadway to conduct business before the vehicle
               has been approached, called, or waived down by a prospective customer.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if the person acts as a peddler, hawker, or solicitor
               using a vehicle upon any street or highway within the city in a manner that blocks
               or impedes access to or from any alley, street or driveway, or impedes the flow of
               traffic on any public street or highway.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-32.,Revocation by municipal court judge.,"A municipal court judge, in addition to imposing a fine for violation of any provision
               of this chapter, may institute proceedings to suspend or revoke the permit of a person
               if the person is required by law to obtain a permit from the city and the judge finds
               the person guilty of violating a city ordinance relating to peddlers, solicitors or
               itinerant merchants.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-33.,Penalty.,"(a)

               Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
               of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500.00
               for each offense. Each attempted or completed act as a peddler, hawker, solicitor,
               or canvasser shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.

               (b)

               In case of any willful violation of any of the terms and provisions of this chapter,
               the city, in addition to imposing the penalties provided in subsection (a), may institute
               any appropriate action or proceeding in any court having proper jurisdiction, to restrain,
               correct or abate such violations; and the definition of any violation as a misdemeanor
               shall not preclude the city from invoking the civil remedies given it by the laws
               of the state.

               (c)

               The court trying a civil or criminal cause under subsections (a) or (b) shall have
               the right and power upon judgment or conviction of any person for violation of any
               of the provisions of this chapter to decree and to make as a part of the judgment
               or conviction in such cause the forfeiture of the permit required by this chapter.
               When a permit is forfeited in this manner, no further permit shall be issued to that
               person for one-year from the date of judgment or conviction.

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Sec. 28-34.,Exemptions.,"(a)

               This chapter does not apply to:

               (1)

               The activity of a person with an appointment calling upon or dealing with manufacturers,
               wholesalers, distributors, brokers or retailers at their place of business and in
               the usual course of business;

               (2)

               The activity of a person acting at the request or invitation of the owner or occupant
               of a residence;

               (3)

               Sales made under the authority of and by judicial order; or

               (4)

               The activity of a government employee acting within the course and scope of their
               official duties serving, delivering or posting official notices including notices
               of code violations, water restrictions, utility outages, burn bans, special event
               impacts or security issues.

               (b)

               It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution for any offense under this chapter
               that the activity of the defendant is listed in subsection (a).

               (Ord. No. 2013-015, § 2, 2-18-2013)"
Chapter 30,SIGNS,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Regulation of signs by municipalities, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 216."
Sec. 30-1.,Purpose and scope.,"The regulations established in this chapter are intended to provide minimum standards
               to safeguard life, property, and public welfare regulating and controlling the use,
               materials, construction, location, number, maintenance, and the permitting of certain
               signs and sign structures. In addition, this chapter is intended to enhance the beauty
               of the city by limiting visual clutter. The provisions of this chapter are not intended
               to permit a violation of any provision of any other ordinance or federal or state
               law.

               (Code 2008, § 111.01; Ord. No. 2001-008, 11-27-2000)"
Sec. 30-2.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Approved combustible material means wood or materials not more combustible than wood and approved plastics.

               Approved plastics means only those slow-burning plastics such as cellulose acetate or methylmethacrylate
               or other plastics of no greater combustibility as now approved by the Underwriters'
               Laboratories, Inc., for sign use (UL 48).

               Balloon or inflatable sign means a sign in front of or attached to a balloon or other inflatable, inflated or
               floating device, which measures more than three feet across in any direction.

               Banner means a sign made of paper, plastic, or fabric with or without a frame, containing
               characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentations, the surface of which exceeds
               50 square feet. The term ""banner"" does not include a flag.

               Builder's sign means a temporary sign which provides direction or announces the location of model
               homes or group of homes built by one builder.

               Canopy means a structure made of metal or other material with frames affixed to a building
               and carried by a frame which is supported by the ground.

               Combination sign means any sign which combines the characteristics of two or more types of signs.

               Construction sign means a sign identifying individuals or companies involved in design, construction,
               wrecking, financing, or development when placed upon the premises where work is under
               construction, but only for the duration of construction or wrecking.

               Decorative trim means the molding, battens, cappings, nailing strips, latticing, platforms and letters,
               figures, characters, or representations in cutout or irregular form which are attached
               to the sign structure.

               Display surface means the area made available by the sign structure for purpose of displaying the
               advertising message.

               Electric sign means any sign containing electric wiring such as characters, letters, figures, designs,
               faces, backgrounds, or outlines illuminated by incandescent or fluorescent lamps or
               luminous tubes as part of the sign proper.

               External illumination means illumination of a sign by an artificial source of light which is not contained
               within the sign itself.

               Flag means any fabric containing distinctive color, pattern, or symbols, used as a symbol
               of government, political subdivisions, or nonprofit organizations.

               Flashing sign means an illuminated sign on which the artificial source of light is not maintained
               stationary or constant in intensity and color when the sign is illuminated. For the
               purpose of this chapter, any moving illuminated sign displaying alternating illumination
               being turned on and off which induces a strobe or pulsing effect shall be deemed to
               be a flashing sign.

               Ground sign means a sign which is supported by two or more columns, poles, uprights or braces
               placed in or upon the ground and is not part of a building.

               Height means height shall be measured from the grade of the closest curb or if adjacent
               to or separated from an elevated roadway only by an access road, from the grade of
               the elevated freeway.

               Illuminated sign means a sign which is an artificial source of light is used in connection with the
               display of the sign.

               Marquee means a permanent roof-like structure extending from part of the wall of a building
               not supported by the ground, and constructed of durable material such as metal, glass,
               or wood.

               Marquee sign means a sign which is attached to a marquee.

               Monument sign means a sign which is supported upon its own foundation, separate from a building
               (other than a ground or pole sign).

               Nameplate sign means a nonilluminated sign identifying only the name and occupation or profession
               of the occupant of the premises on which the sign is located.

               Off-premises sign means a sign which directs attention to a business, profession, activity, commodity,
               service, or entertainment other than one conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises
               where such sign is located.

               On-premises sign means a sign which is located upon the premises where the business, profession, activity,
               commodity, service or entertainment referred to by the sign is located.

               Permanent sign means a sign which is fixed in nature that is erected, affixed, or maintained on
               a premises for a period of time which is regulated by Table 1, Schedule of Permanent
               Signs, as set forth in section 30-22.

               Pole sign means a sign that is mounted on a single freestanding column, pole, upright, or brace
               placed in or upon the ground and is not part of a building.

               Portable sign means any temporary sign supported by the ground but not attached to the ground,
               which can be regularly moved from a location at periodic intervals, and which is located
               upon the premises where the business, profession, activity commodity, service, or
               entertainment referred to by the sign is located. The term ""portable sign"" shall include
               the following:

                  (1)

                  A sign which is mounted on a trailer or wheels or is part of a trailer and by its
                  design can be towed from one location to another by the use of attached wheels or
                  by attaching an axle to existing mounts;

                  (2)

                  An A-frame-type sign;

                  (3)

                  A sign affixed by poles to a portable base made of wood, metal, or concrete;

                  (4)

                  A sign suspended or attached to a stand with an inverted ""T"" base; and

                  (5)

                  Any sign that the base is inserted into a sleeve mounted or driven into the ground
                  which can be easily extracted from said sleeve by simple lifting or removing bolts.

               Premises means a lot or tract, or a combination of contiguous lots or unplatted tracts if
               the lots or tracts or combination are under a single ownership and are reflected in
               the plat or deed records of Johnson County. Multitenant locations shall be considered
               as being one premises.

               Projecting sign means a sign other than a wall sign suspended from or supported by a building or
               structure or sign structure and projecting out therefrom.

               Projection means the distance by which a sign extends over public property or beyond the building
               line.

               Real estate sign means a sign relating to the sale, lease, or rental of the premises upon which such
               a sign is placed.

               Roof sign means a sign erected or maintained in whole or in part upon, against, or directly
               above the roof or parapet line of a building.

               Searchlight sign means a large outdoor lighting apparatus used to attract attention to a business
               or a specific location.

               Secondary sign means signs located on premises identifying uses in a mixed-use multitenant commercial
               shopping center.

               Sign means any identification, description, illustration, or device illuminated or non-illuminated
               which is visible to the general public and directs attention to a project, service,
               place, activity, person, institution, business or solicitation, including any permanently
               installed or situated merchandise, or facsimile, or any emblem, painting, flag, banner,
               pennant, or placard designed to advertise, identify or convey information.

               Sign structure means the supports, uprights, braces, and framework of the sign.

               Temporary sign means a nonpermanent sign erected, affixed, or maintained on a premises for a period
               of time regulated by Table 2, Schedule of Temporary Signs, as set forth in section 30-22.

               Wall sign means a sign attached or painted directly to an exterior wall of a building or dependent
               upon a building for support with the exposed face of the sign located in a place substantially
               parallel to an exterior building wall to which it is attached or by which it is supported.

               Warning sign means a sign containing no advertising material, warning the public of the existence
               of danger.

               Window sign means a sign attached to, placed upon, or painted on the exterior or interior of
               a window or door, of a building which is intended for viewing from the exterior of
               such building.

               Yard sign means any sign of a temporary nature other than a development, real estate, builder's
               or construction sign, which includes the advertisement of a service of which has been
               performed on premises, or construction/repair that has been performed on premises.

               (Code 2008, § 111.02; Ord. No. 2001-008, 11-27-2000)"
Sec. 40-251.,Manner of collection and transportation.,"(a)

               The collection, removal, and disposal of all garbage, trash, and brush shall be carried
               on in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the city in a clean and sanitary condition.

               (b)

               All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage and trash shall
               be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent blowing or scattering
               of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported for disposal.

               (Code 2008, § 50.11)"
Sec. 30-3.,Permits.,"(a)

               No sign shall hereafter be erected, relocated, constructed, altered, or renewed, except
               as provided by this chapter and a permit for the same has been issued by the building
               official.

               (b)

               Application for a sign permit shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by the
               building official. Such application shall contain the location by street and number
               of the proposed sign as well as the name and address of the owner and the sign contractor
               or erector. The building official may require the filing of plans or other pertinent
               information such as the method of construction, the method of installation or support,
               etc.

               (c)

               A sign permit fee shall be paid to the building official for each permit as currently
               established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to
               time.

               (d)

               Exemptions. No permit shall be required to change the advertising copy or message
               on a painted, printed, or changeable letter sign. Painting, repainting, cleaning,
               or repair maintenance shall not be considered an erection or alteration which requires
               a permit unless a structural change is made.

               (Code 2008, § 111.03)"
Sec. 30-4.,Compliance when existing sign altered.,"A sign which was erected before the adoption of these requirements shall not be rebuilt,
               relocated, or altered without conforming to the requirements of this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 111.04)"
Sec. 30-5.,Maintenance.,"The building official shall require the proper maintenance of all signs and shall
               inspect every sign within 30 days after it is erected. All signs together with all
               of their supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall be kept in repair and in proper
               state of preservation. The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted
               or posted at all times. The building official may order the removal of any sign that
               is not maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 111.05)"
Sec. 30-6.,"Obstruction of fire escapes, windows, etc.","No sign shall be erected, constructed, or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape,
               window, door, or other opening or shall be so placed as to prevent free passage from
               one part of a roof to any other part thereof. No sign shall be attached in any form,
               shape, or manner to a fire escape or shall be so placed as to interfere with an opening
               which is required for legal ventilation.

               (Code 2008, § 111.06)"
Sec. 30-7.,Minimum height of electric sign.,"No exposed, uninsulated parts of an electric sign shall be closer than nine feet to
               the ground immediately below.

               (Code 2008, § 111.07)"
Sec. 30-8.,Signs within public rights-of-way.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any sign which will project or extend
               over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public property, or which will be supported
               by a pole, pipe, or other support located or set on any street, alley, sidewalk, or
               other public property, without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city secretary.
               Application for such permit shall be filed with the city secretary and shall set forth
               the proposed location of such sign, the material out of which same is to be constructed,
               its dimensions, the exact location of the pole, pipe, or other support, if location
               is on city property, and the height of such sign, measured from the bottom of the
               sign to the ground. No such permit shall be issued unless the application is approved
               by the mayor.

                  (1)

                  No barber pole and no post or any other device for the purpose of supporting any sign
                  shall be set, placed, constructed, altered, or renewed upon any street, sidewalk,
                  alley or other public space, except as authorized in this section.

                  (2)

                  No sign projecting over a public driveway shall be hung less than 16 feet above the
                  driveway.

                  (3)

                  Temporary signs are exempt from the requirements of this section if less than three
                  feet tall and comply with all other city rules and regulations.

               (Code 2008, §§ 111.08, 130.40; Ord. No. 2011-019, § 3, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 30-11.,Removal of signs after advertised event.,"Every sign which advertises an event such as an election, a sale, a carnival, a celebration
               or a revival shall be removed within ten days after the final date of such event.
               It the candidate whose name is promoted by a sign or if the person, business, entity
               or sponsoring organization responsible for any other event fails to have such sign
               removed within such ten-day period, such candidate, person, business entity or sponsoring
               organization shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon final conviction fined
               in an amount not to exceed $500.00. Each day any such violation occurs shall be deemed
               a separate offense punishable hereunder.

               (Code 2008, § 111.11; Ord. No. 98-020, 6-22-1998;
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-019, § 1, 8-15-2016
                  
               )"
Sec. 30-12.,Pole and monument not to be used in combination.,"Pole and monument signs shall not be used in combination on the same premises, except
               as allowed by section 30-16. Each premises shall be permitted only one pole sign or one monument sign. A pole
               sign or monument sign may be used in combination with other permanent signs listed
               in Table I, Schedule of Permanent Signs, as set forth in section 30-22.

               (Code 2008, § 111.12)"
Sec. 30-9.,Engineering design and materials.,"(a)

               Wind pressure. Signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressures in accordance
               with the building code.

               (b)

               Seismic loads. In areas of high intensity shock, all signs shall be designed in accordance with
               local requirements to resist earthquake shock. Wind loads and seismic loads need not
               be combined in the design of signs and sign structures except that loadings producing
               the larger stresses need to be used.

               (c)

               Allowable stresses. The design of wood, concrete, or steel members shall conform to the requirements
               of the building code. Loads, both vertical and horizontal, exerted on the soil shall
               not produce stresses exceeding those specified in the building code. The working stresses
               of wire rope and its fastenings shall not exceed 25 percent of their ultimate strength.

               (d)

               Approved materials for trim. Nonstructural trim may be made of metal or wood or approved plastics or any combination
               thereof. Facings, letters and decorations of signs other than electric signs may be
               made of wood.

               (e)

               Anchorage.

               (1)

               Members supporting unbraced signs shall be so proportioned that the bearing loads
               imposed on the soil in either direction, horizontal or vertical, shall not exceed
               the safe values. Braced ground signs shall be anchored to resist the specified wind
               or dead load acting in any direction. Anchors and supports shall be designed for safe
               bearing loads on the soil and for an effective resistance to pullout amounting to
               a force 25 percent greater than the required resistance to overturning. Anchors and
               supports shall penetrate to a depth below ground greater than that of the frost line.

               (2)

               Portable ground signs supported by frames or posts rigidly attached to the base shall
               be so proportioned that the weight and size of the base will be adequate to resist
               the wind pressure specified in subsection (a) of this section.

               (3)

               Signs attached to masonry, concrete, or steel shall be safely and securely fastened
               thereto by means of metal anchors, bolts, or approved expansion screws of sufficient
               size and anchorage to support safely the loads applied.

               (4)

               No wooden blocks or plugs or anchors with wood used in connection with screws or nails
               shall be considered proper anchorage, except in the case of signs attached to wood
               framing.

               (5)

               No anchor or support of any sign shall be connected to, or supported by, an unbraced
               parapet wall, unless such wall is designed in accordance with the requirements for
               parapet walls specified in the building code.

               (f)

               Approved plastics for signs. Approved plastics may be used as the display surface material and for the letters
               and decorations and facings on signs and outdoor display structures provided that
               the structure of the sign on which the plastic is mounted or installed is noncombustible.

               (Code 2008, § 111.09)"
Sec. 30-13.,Permanent off-premises signs.,"The following regulations apply to permanent off-premises signs adjacent to interstate
               highways and federal-aid primary highways, as those terms are defined in the Highway
               Beautification Act. Permanent off-premises signs are only permitted on Interstate
               Highway 35 in A, C-1, C-2, M-1, and M-2 zoning districts. The following regulations
               apply to all permanent off-premises signs.

                  (1)

                  No more than two panels or sign faces will be allowed for each sign.

                  (2)

                  Each panel or sign shall not exceed 150 square feet in total area.

                  (3)

                  No off-premises sign shall exceed the height limit as provided for in Table I, Schedule
                  of Permanent Signs, as set forth in section 30-22.

                  (4)

                  No off-premises sign shall exceed 30 feet in length, inclusive of border and trim.

                  (5)

                  Each off-premises sign shall have a minimum ground clearance of ten feet.

                  (6)

                  Along interstate highways and freeways primary highways, a sign shall not be located
                  within 1,500 feet of another sign, on the same side of the roadway.

                  (7)

                  Along nonfreeway primary highways, a sign shall not be located within 1,000 feet of
                  another sign, or one per lot, whichever is less, on the same side of the roadway.

                  (8)

                  Signs may not be located within 1,500 feet of any public park, public forest, public
                  playground or scenic area as designated by the state highway department or other governmental
                  agency having and exercising such authority when said park area is adjacent to the
                  highway.

                  (9)

                  Spacing from a residential zoning district shall be 500 feet for an off-premises sign.

                  (10)

                  All off-premises signs shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from any highway right-of-way
                  line.

                  (11)

                  Existing off-premises signs adjacent to I-35 may be moved up to 400 feet as long as
                  they are not increased in size or height.

               (Code 2008, § 111.13)"
Sec. 32-3.,Covering water valve boxes.,"It shall be unlawful for any contractor or other person building or repairing streets
               or sidewalks in the city to cover over or conceal from view any water valve box in
               the street or service box on the sidewalk.

               (Code 2008, § 96.03)"
Sec. 42-27.,TF two-family residential (duplex) district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The TF district is designed to promote stable, quality residential development of
               slightly increased densities. This district is the most restrictive of the multifamily
               districts and is intended for two-family use. This district is intended for zones
               of transition from the single family zones to higher density multifamily or nonresidential
               zones.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the TF district, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be hereinafter
               erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged, unless otherwise provided in
               this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Field or sales office, temporary

                              1 space per employee

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, attached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              1 space for each 100 square feet of gross water surface and deck area

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Two-family dwelling

                              2 spaces per unit, 1 covered

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              7,500 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              60 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              125 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              25/35 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              25 linear feet
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              50/60
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              8.0 DU

                              Height:

                              35 feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 7,500 square feet may be used for a single family residence if
               it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot existing
               at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the minimum
               requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

                  4
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Specific uses. The following specific exception uses are allowed in the TF district when authorized
               under the provisions of section 42-45.

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community center, public

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Country club (private)

                              1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area or for every 5 members, whichever
                              is greater

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Golf course

                              Minimum of 30 spaces

                              Guest house

                              1 space per unit

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Library

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              School, private (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, public (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Townhouse or row dwelling

                              2 spaces per unit, 1 covered

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (e)

               Special construction requirements.

               (1)

               Developments of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other materials
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (2)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided, however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (3)

               Applicability of regulations. These construction requirements shall apply to all the following:

               a.

               Newly constructed houses.

               b.

               Houses moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (4)

               Attic space. All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (5)

               Living space. All residential structures must have at least 1,000 square feet of living space per
               unit.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-28.,MF multifamily residential district.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-29.,"C-1 commercial district—Office, light retail and neighborhood services.",Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 30-14.,Prohibited signs.,"The following signs are prohibited from installation, construction, repair, alteration,
               or relocation within the city, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter:

                  (1)

                  A-frame or sandwich-board signs. A-frame or sandwich-board and sidewalk or curb signs are prohibited except as a temporary
                  sign.

                  (2)

                  Banners and balloons or inflatable signs. Banners and balloons or inflatable signs, except as a temporary sign.

                  (3)

                  Moving and flashing signs. Moving and flashing signs, except for reader boards which convey a message.

                  (4)

                  Portable signs. Portable signs, except as temporary signs.

                  (5)

                  Signs on parked vehicles. Signs placed on or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers which are parked on a public
                  right-of-way, public property, or private property so as to be visible from a public
                  right-of-way where the apparent purpose is to advertise a product or direct people
                  to a business or activity located on the same or nearby property. However, this does
                  not prohibit signs placed to vehicles and trailers, that are incidental to the primary
                  use or ownership of the vehicle or trailer as transportation.

                  (6)

                  Signs attached to utility poles or other surfaces. Signs attached to utility poles or other surfaces which are not the property of the
                  utility or which serve a public purpose and are located within a public right-of-way
                  or easement.

                  (7)

                  Signs that advertise or depict, either graphically or verbally, either by explicit
                  or literal expression, connotation or implied reference, nudity, specified sexual
                  activity or specified anatomical areas as such terms are defined in section 42-673
                  of the zoning ordinance. No models, mannequins, pictures, drawings or sketches depicting
                  nudity or other pictorial or graphic displays of nudity shall be allowed on a sign
                  that is visible to the public from any street, sidewalk or other public place.

               (Code 2008, § 111.14; Ord. No. 2011-034, § 1, 9-19-2011)"
Sec. 32-1.,"Street cuts, repairs, and excavations.","(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, reconstruct, alter, or repair any
               street, sidewalk, alley, driveway approach or curb, or to make any excavation or opening
               in any street, alley, or public highway in the city without first having obtained
               a permit from the director of public works.

               (b)

               The application for a permit to do any such construction, reconstruction, alteration,
               repair, or to make any excavation or opening in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public
               highway shall be made to the director of public works and shall state clearly:

               (1)

               The name of the street or highway in which such excavation or opening is proposed;

               (2)

               The exact location in said street or highway where such opening is proposed;

               (3)

               The purpose of making the opening; and

               (4)

               The name of the person who proposes to make such excavation or opening. If such person
               is a corporation or business entity, such person shall provide the city with the name,
               address, and telephone number of the agent to be contacted by the city in connection
               with said work.

               (c)

               The director of public works shall estimate the probable cost of repairing, tamping,
               packing, constructing, repaving, or surfacing the soil, fill, base, or pavement which
               may be removed from such public street or highway where such proposed excavation or
               opening is to be made, and shall require the applicant to file a written bond, with
               two or more sufficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to cover such cost, conditioned
               that the street be restored in as good a condition as it was before the excavation
               or opening was made. Such bond shall be received and approved by the director of public
               works. If the applicant elects to do so, he may make a cash deposit in such sum as
               may be fixed by the director of public works in lieu of written bond. If the person
               making such application for a permit is a provider of public utility service, holding
               a valid franchise from the city, said utility may make a blanket bond in the amount
               as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
               from time to time payable to the city. The requirement of a new bond for each site
               of excavation or opening in a street shall be waived with respect to such provider
               of utility service until such time as the estimated cost to repair all excavations
               open or unrepaired by said utility exceeds the amount of the bond.

               (d)

               When the bond or deposit required in subsection (c) of this section shall have been
               accepted by the director of public works, he shall then issue a permit for the excavation
               or opening named in the application and the applicant may then proceed with the work
               in the location designated in his application and in no other location.

               (e)

               It shall be the duty of any person making an excavation in any street in the city
               to adequately and sufficiently protect all excavations by barricades or other obstructions,
               including but not less than one light or reflectorized barricade on each side of such
               excavation during the nighttime so as to prevent accidents or injuries to personal
               property, until such time as such excavation is resurfaced and approved by the director
               of public works. The city may erect such barricades, provide such lights, and do the
               things necessary to properly warn the public, at the discretion of the director of
               public works. Any work done by the city or expenses incurred by the city in the protection
               of the public which results because of a failure of the person opening such excavation
               shall be charged to such person and collectible against the bond posted.

               (f)

               All of the work of excavation or making any type of opening in any of the streets,
               alleys, or highways of the city shall at all times be under the supervision of the
               director of public works and the person doing the work shall do the same in a manner
               directed by the director of public works, to the end that the streets and highways
               of the city shall not be unduly disturbed or traffic thereon obstructed.

               (g)

               After such excavation or opening shall have been made, the person so making it shall
               backfill the excavation or opening with such material and in such manner, including
               but not limited to tamping, packing, or rolling, as the director of public works may
               require, and shall leave the street or highway in at least the same condition as it
               was before the opening was made.

               (h)

               The condition of the bond required in subsection (c) of this section shall not be
               considered to have been complied with until the director of public works has inspected
               the street or highway as being in satisfactory condition. If the person making the
               opening shall fail to leave the highway in a good state of repair, satisfactory to
               the director of public works, the director shall call upon the bondsmen to pay the
               cost of repairing such highway. In the event of a cash deposit instead of a bond,
               the director may proceed to have the street or other property put in good condition,
               paying for the same out of the deposit made by such person. If there is any remainder
               of the deposit after payment for such work, such remainder shall be refunded to the
               person making the deposit.

               (i)

               Unless otherwise specified by the director of public works, with the approval of the
               city council, permit issued hereunder shall be valid for a period of 30 days. If at
               the end of this period the work for which the excavation or opening was made cannot
               be reasonably completed, the person holding such permit shall advise the director
               in writing of the additional time necessary and a date for completion. The director
               may extend the permit period for 15 days. If a permit period in excess of 15 additional
               days is required to complete the work, the director may extend such period only with
               the approval of the city council. Failure to close and fully repair an opening or
               excavation within the permit period shall constitute an offense under this chapter.

               (j)

               All work done or performed under the provisions of this chapter shall be done or performed
               in a good workmanlike manner. Such work shall not be accepted or approved by the city
               until the premises shall be cleaned and cleared of all debris, trash, and rubbish
               which may have accumulated during such work. Upon the completion of the work and removal
               of all debris, trash, and rubbish, the approval of the director of public works shall
               be given within five days of the notification of such completion.

               (Code 2008, § 96.01)

            State Law reference— 
               Trench safety standards, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code § 756.021 et seq."
Sec. 32-2.,Emergencies.,"When in the reasonable judgment of the person causing an excavation or opening to
               be made in a street, the life of a person is threatened or damage to property is threatened,
               the person may proceed to make such emergency excavations as are reasonably necessary
               to repair utility services. Any person making such emergency excavation shall, within
               24 hours, comply with the provisions of this chapter which requires a permit, a bond,
               and other matters relating to the opening of an excavation in a street in the city.

               (Code 2008, § 96.02)"
Sec. 30-15.,Signs exempt from regulations.,"The following signs are exempt from the provisions and regulations of this chapter:

                  (1)

                  Public signs. Signs required by governmental bodies or specifically authorized for a public purpose
                  by any law, statute, or ordinance. Such public signs may be of any type, number, area,
                  height, location, or illumination as required by law, statute, or ordinance.

                  (2)

                  Signs on vehicles. Signs placed on or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers where the sign is incidental
                  to the primary use of the vehicle or trailer as transportation.

                  (3)

                  Warning signs. Signs warning the public of the existence of danger but containing no advertising
                  material; to be removed within three days upon the subsidence of danger. Such warning
                  signs may be of any type, number, area, height, location, or illumination as deemed
                  necessary to warn the public of the existence of danger.

                  (4)

                  Flags. Flags of governmental entities or nonprofit organizations.

                  (5)

                  Governmental sign. Signs of duly constituted governmental body, including traffic or similar regulatory
                  devices, legal notices, warnings at railroad crossings, and other instructional or
                  regulatory signs having to do with health, hazards, parking, swimming, dumping, etc.

                  (6)

                  Address numerals. Address numerals and other signs required to be maintained by and placed in accordance
                  with law or governmental order, rule or regulations.

                  (7)

                  Athletic signs. Signs used as scoreboards in athletic stadiums.

                  (8)

                  Directional signs. Signs which direct vehicles and pedestrian traffic, which may display arrows, words,
                  or other symbols to indicate direction of facilities.

                  (9)

                  Directory signs. Signs which are located in or adjacent to entrances or foyers.

                  (10)

                  Instructional signs. Signs, provided no advertising of any kind, which provide direction or instruction
                  to guide persons to facilities intended to serve the public, including but not specifically
                  limited to the signs identifying restrooms, public telephones, public walkways, parking
                  areas, and other similar facilities.

               (Code 2008, § 111.15)"
Sec. 42-35.,PD planned development district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The PD district is intended to permit flexibility and encourage a more creative,
               efficient, and aesthetically desirable design and placement of buildings, open spaces
               and circulation patterns, and to best utilize special site features such as topography,
               size and shape. It is intended that the flexibility permitted by this zoning category
               extends to discretionary approval, in conjunction with development plan review, not
               limited to, but including such requirements as those relating to parking, building
               setbacks, square footage of buildings and structures, protective screening, sign placement,
               and other specifications in order to achieve the purposes and objectives stated in
               conformance with good planning practices. The PD district allows for combining and
               mixing of uses allowed in various zoning districts with appropriate regulations to
               govern the development of specific sites. The PD district may be a prefix to other
               zoning districts or a separate zoning district approved for a particular development.

               (b)

               Permitted uses. The city council may approve any use or combination of uses in a PD district that
               are proposed to be developed under development controlled conditions designed to assure
               quality development and meet the purposes and requirements of this section. The uses
               may be for an entire of class of uses such as general retail or for specific types
               of uses such as restaurants. In reviewing an application for a PD district, the planning
               and zoning commission shall consider the nature and described performance of the proposed
               use and shall transmit its findings and recommendations to the city council.

               (c)

               Development standards.

               (1)

               Development standards for each separate PD district shall be set forth in the ordinance
               granting the PD district and may include but shall not be limited to uses, density,
               lot area, lot width, lot depth, yard depths and widths, building height, building
               elevations, coverage, floor area ratio, parking, access, screening, landscaping, accessory
               buildings, signs, lighting, management associations, and other requirements as the
               city council may deem appropriate.

               (2)

               When a PD district is approved as a prefix to another zoning district, the particular
               district to which uses specified in the PD are most similar shall be stated in the
               granting ordinance. All PD applications shall list all requested variances from the
               standard requirements set forth throughout this chapter.

               (3)

               The ordinance granting a PD district shall include a statement as to the purpose and
               intent of the PD granted therein. A specific list is required of variances in each
               district and a general statement citing the reason for the PD request.

               (4)

               The PD district shall conform to all other sections of this chapter, unless specifically
               exempted in the granting ordinance.

               (d)

               Conceptual and development plans. In establishing a PD district, the city council shall approve as part of the granting
               ordinance appropriate plans and standards for each PD district. During the review
               and public hearing process, the city council shall require a conceptual plan and a
               development plan (or detailed site plan).

               (1)

               Conceptual plan. This plan shall be submitted by the applicant. The plan shall show the applicant's
               intent for the use of the land within the proposed planned development district in
               a graphic manner and shall be supported by written documentation of proposals and
               standards for development.

               a.

               A conceptual plan for residential land use shall show general use, streets, and preliminary
               plotting arrangements. For residential development which does not propose platted
               lots, the conceptual plan shall set forth the size, type, and location of buildings
               and building sites, access, density, building height, fire lanes, screening, parking
               areas, landscaped areas, and other pertinent development data.

               b.

               A conceptual plan for uses other than residential uses shall set forth the land use
               proposals in a manner to adequately illustrate the type and nature of the proposed
               development. Data which may be submitted by the applicant, or required by the city
               council, may include but is not limited to the types of use, topography, and boundary
               of the PD area, physical features of the site, existing streets, alleys, and easements,
               location of future public facilities, building heights and locations, parking ratios,
               and other information to adequately describe the proposed development and to provide
               data for approval which is to be used in drafting the final development plan.

               c.

               After approval of a conceptual plan by the city council, changes of detail which do
               not alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to adjacent property
               and which do not alter the uses permitted or increase the density, building height,
               or coverage of the site and which do not decrease the off-street parking ratio, reduce
               the yards provided at the boundary of the site, or significantly alter the landscape
               plans as indicated on the approved conceptual plan may be authorized by the zoning
               administrator. If an agreement cannot be reached regarding whether or not a detail
               site plan conforms to the original concept plan, the city council shall determine
               the conformity.

               (2)

               Development plan or detailed site plan. This plan shall set forth the final plans for development of the planned development
               district and shall conform to the data presented and approved on the conceptual plan.
               Approval of the development plan shall be the basis for issuance of a building permit.
               The development plan may be submitted for the total area of the PD or for any section
               or part as approved on the conceptual plan. The development plan must be approved
               by the city council after a recommendation of the planning and zoning commission.
               A public hearing on approval of the development plan shall be required at the council
               level, unless such a hearing is waived pursuant to section 42-56 at the time of conceptual plan approval in the original granting ordinance. The development
               plan shall include:

               a.

               A site inventory analysis including a scale drawing showing existing vegetation, natural
               watercourses, creeks or bodies of water, and an analysis of planned changes in such
               natural features as a result of the development. This should include a delineation
               of any flood prone areas.

               b.

               A scale drawing showing any proposed public or private streets and alleys; building
               sites or lots; and areas reserved as parks, parkways, playgrounds, utility easements,
               school sites, street widening and street changes; the points of ingress and egress
               from existing streets; general location and description of existing and proposed utility
               services, including size of water and sewer mains; the location and width for all
               curb cuts and the land area of all abutting sites and the zoning classification thereof
               on an accurate survey of the tract with the topographical contour interval of not
               more than five feet.

               c.

               A site plan for proposed building complexes showing the location of separate buildings,
               and between buildings and property lines, street lines, and alley lines. Also to be
               included on the site plan is a plan showing the arrangement and provision of off-street
               parking.

               d.

               A landscape plan showing screening walls, ornamental planting, wooded areas, and trees
               to be planted.

               e.

               An architectural plan showing elevations and signage style to be used throughout the
               development in all districts except single-family and two-family may be required by
               the city council if deemed appropriate. Any or all of the required information may
               be incorporated on a single drawing if such drawing is clear and can be evaluated
               by the building official or his designated representative.

               (3)

               Procedure for establishment. The procedure for establishing a PD district shall follow the procedure for zoning
               amendments as set forth in section 42-96. This procedure is expanded as follows for approval of conceptual and development
               plans.

               a.

               An application for a PD district shall be made to the planning and zoning commission
               in the same manner as an application for a zoning change. The application shall include
               and be accompanied by a conceptual plan.

               b.

               Separate public hearings shall be held by the planning and zoning commission and city
               council for the approval of the conceptual plan and the development plan, or any section
               of the development plan, unless such requirement is waived by the city council upon
               a determination that a single public hearing is adequate. A single public hearing
               is adequate when:

               1.

               The applicant submits adequate data with the request for the PD district to fulfill
               the requirements for both plans; or

               2.

               Information on the concept plan is sufficient to determine the appropriate use of
               the land and the detail site plan will not deviate substantially from it; and

               3.

               The requirement is waived at the time the granting ordinance is approved. If the requirement
               is waived, the conditions shall be specifically stated in the granting ordinance.

               c.

               The ordinance establishing the planned development district shall not be approved
               until the conceptual plan is approved. The conceptual plan shall become a part of
               the granting ordinance.

               d.

               The development plan may be approved in sections. When the plan is approved in sections,
               the separate approvals by the planning and zoning commission and city council for
               the initial and subsequent sections will be required.

               e.

               An initial development plan shall be submitted for approval within six months from
               the approval of the PD ordinance. If the development plan is not submitted within
               six months, the conceptual plan is subject to reapproval by the city council. If the
               entire project is not completed within two years, the city council may review the
               original conceptual plan to ensure its continued validity.

               e.

               Regardless of whether the public hearing is waived for the development plan, approval
               by the city council is still required.

               (e)

               Written report may be required. When a PD is being considered, a written report may be requested of the applicant
               discussing the impact on planning, engineering, water utilities, electric, sanitation,
               building inspection, tax, police, fire, and traffic. Written comments from the applicable
               public school district and from private utilities may be submitted to the city council.

               (f)

               Planned developments to be recorded. All PD districts approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
               be referenced on the zoning map, and a list of such PD districts, together with the
               category of uses permitted therein, shall be maintained in an appendix attached to
               the zoning ordinance from which this division is derived.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-55.,Supplementary district regulations.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-56.,Site plans.,"(a)

               Generally. Whenever a site plan is required by this chapter, the site plan must conform to the
               requirements of this section.

               (b)

               Administrative site plans. Site plans may be approved administratively by the zoning administrator unless approval
               is required under subsection 42-56(c). An aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the zoning administrator to the
               board of adjustment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

               (c)

               City council approval. The following site plans must be acted upon by the city council after recommendation
               by the planning and zoning commission:

               (1)

               A site plan submitted in conjunction with an application for a specific use permit
               in any zoning district (public hearing required);

               (2)

               A site plan submitted in conjunction with an application for a zoning change to GH,
               MH-1, MH-2, MH-3, MF, M-1, M-2, CBD, or I.

               Changes in any site plan approved by the city council shall be processed the same
               as the original approval of the site plan, unless a determination is made by the zoning
               administrator that a proposed change of detail does not alter the basic relationship
               of the proposed development to adjacent property, and does not alter the uses permitted
               or increase the density, floor-area ratio, height ratio, or reduce the yards provided
               at the boundary of the site as indicated on the approved site plan. Such changes may
               be authorized by the zoning administrator. An aggrieved party may appeal the decision
               of the zoning administrator to the zoning board of adjustment in accordance with the
               provisions of this chapter.

               (d)

               Site plan review. The purpose of site plan review is:

               (1)

               To insure compliance with the zoning ordinance, while allowing for design flexibility;

               (2)

               To assist in the orderly and harmonious development of the city;

               (3)

               To protect adjacent uses from obstructions to light, air, and visibility;

               (4)

               To provide protection from fire;

               (5)

               To avoid undue concentrations of population and overcrowding of land; and

               (6)

               To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, drainage and
               other public requirements.

               (e)

               Notice and hearing. The following notice and hearing requirements shall apply to site plans requiring
               city council approval:

               (1)

               Owners of record of property within 200 feet of the property under consideration will
               be notified of site plan consideration by the planning and zoning commission.

               (2)

               The zoning administrator shall have at least one sign erected on the property for
               which site plan consideration of the planning and zoning commission has been requested.
               The sign shall have total area of at least four square feet and shall be located adjacent
               to streets, if possible. Such sign shall be erected on or before the first date of
               the first notice to property owners and shall be removed immediately after final action
               by the city council, or when the applicant withdraws the request, whichever comes
               first. The sign shall contain a notice of hearing on a site plan and the telephone
               number of the public official from whom dates of public hearing may be obtained. The
               erection or continued maintenance of signs shall not be deemed a condition precedent
               to the review or approval of any site plan or the holding of any public hearing.

               (3)

               Hearings held by the city council for consideration of site plans for specific use
               permits shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of state law and section
               42-96. An approved site plan for a specific use permit shall become part of the amending
               ordinance.

               (4)

               A separate notice and hearing shall not be required for site plan approval in connection
               with a zoning change or other action requiring notice and a hearing.

               (f)

               Form and content. The site plan shall contain the information listed below, as determined applicable
               by the zoning administrator. Any or all of the required features may be incorporated
               on a single drawing, if such drawing is clear and capable of evaluation by the planning
               and zoning commission, the city council, and the officers required to enforce and
               interpret this chapter.

               (1)

               A scale drawing on a minimum sheet size of 18 inches by 24 inches is required, showing
               any proposed public or private street(s) and alley(s); building site(s) or building
               lot(s); any area(s) proposed for dedication, or reserved as parks, parkways, playgrounds,
               utility and garbage easements, school sites, street widening, street changes; the
               points of ingress and egress from existing public streets and an accurate survey of
               the boundary of tract, as well as a ledger size (11 feet by 17 feet) for file purposes.

               (2)

               Topography with contour interval of not less than two-foot intervals.

               (3)

               Where multiple types of land use are proposed, a land use plan delineating the specific
               areas to be devoted to various uses shall be required.

               (4)

               Where building(s) are proposed, a site plan showing the location of each building
               and the minimum distance between building(s), and between building(s) and the property
               lines, street lines and/or alley lines, shall be submitted.

               (5)

               The square footage of each proposed building on the site.

               (6)

               Front, side, and rear building elevations of all proposed structures.

               (7)

               The height of the building(s) and type of construction materials.

               (8)

               A plan indicating the arrangement and provision of off-street parking, off-street
               loading, and points of entry from adjoining streets.

               (9)

               Landscape plan.

               (10)

               Fire lanes as designated by the fire department.

               (11)

               The location of all fire hydrants.

               (12)

               A table showing land area, building area, parking area and a ratio of building area
               and land area, and a ratio of building/parking area and land area.

               (13)

               The location of all outside facilities for waste disposal.

               (14)

               The type, location, height, and orientation of all external illumination facilities.

               (15)

               The location, size, height, and orientation of all proposed signs.

               (16)

               The 100-year floodplain and floodway limit locations and showing the floodplain map
               number and date.

               (17)

               A drainage plan shall be made a part of the site plan for development projects influenced
               by or containing major drainageways or containing flood prone areas as determined
               by the city engineer.

               (18)

               A performance standards report if deemed necessary by the zoning administrator because
               of the characteristics of the activities to be conducted on the site.

               (19)

               All pedestrian walks, malls, and open area(s) for use by tenants or the public; the
               types of surfacing of such paving or turfing to be used at all locations on the site.

               (20)

               Scale, north arrow, date of site plan preparation, and name(s) and address(es) of
               those responsible for the preparation of the site plan.

               (21)

               Title block, name of owner/applicant, developer, land planner, and/or other relevant
               participant.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-57.,Parking regulations.,"(a)

               General provisions. In all zoning districts there shall be provided, in connection with appropriate allowable
               use, off-street vehicle parking space in connection with the following requirements.
               In any case where specific requirements result in a fraction of a parking space the
               next larger whole number of spaces shall be required.

               (b)

               Certificate of occupancy. All land uses must provide paved parking areas at the time of the issuance of the
               certificate of occupancy. In situations that demonstrate unique and unusual circumstances,
               as determined by the zoning administrator, an administrative, one time extension may
               be given for an additional six-month period.

               (c)

               Off-street parking. Shall mean all areas dedicated to parking and maneuvering that are located on site.
               Off-street parking will not be permitted in any street right-of-way.

               (d)

               Requirements for off-street parking spaces. For the purpose of this section, an off-street parking space shall be a minimum of
               nine feet in width and 18 feet in length as set forth below: (see figure 37-1, which
               is incorporated in and made a part of this chapter).

                              Type and Angle

                              Length (ft)

                              Width (ft.)

                              Single row 90 degree

                              18

                               38 including drive lane

                              Two rows 90 degree

                              18

                              56 including drive lane

                              Single row 60

                              18

                               34 including drive lane

                              Two rows 60

                              18

                              52 including drive lane

                              Single row 45

                              18

                              30 including drive lane

                              Two rows 45

                              18

                              48 including drive lane

                              Single parallel to aisle

                              20

                              9

               &nbsp;

               (See also figure 37-1, which is incorporated in and made a part of this chapter).

               FIGURE 57-1 PARKING LOT LAYOUT

               (e)

               Entrances, exits, and internal circulation in non-residential districts. In non-residential districts, when driveways are less than 20 feet in width, separate
               marked entrances and exits shall be provided so that traffic shall flow in one direction
               only. Entrances and exits to an alley may be provided if prior approval is obtained
               in writing from the city. When more than one aisle is provided, adequate internal
               circulation shall be provided between the aisles to allow movement between the aisles
               without using public right-of-way.

               (f)

               Non-parking areas and maneuvering space. No parking shall be allowed in non-residential districts within an area measuring
               18 feet square with one side of the square along a property line and a second side
               of the square along the width limit of a drive approach in any district. The above
               noted 18-foot square area of no parking shall be behind the property line and adjacent
               to the throat of a driveway. The requirements of this subsection are depicted on figure
               57-2 which is incorporated in and made a part of this chapter. Maneuvering space shall
               be completely off the right-of-way of a public street, place or court.

               FIGURE 57-2

               (g)

               General parking surfaces. In all zoning districts, parking areas, vehicle maneuvering areas, loading areas,
               driveways and approaches for all uses, including one- and two-family dwellings, shall
               be a paved surface, unless otherwise specified in this chapter. All parking requirements
               applying to a stated unit of measurement shall be understood to include a parking
               space for each unit or fraction thereof.

               (h)

               Change in use. In non-residential zoning districts, when the occupancy of any building is changed
               to another use, parking shall be provided to meet the requirements of this section
               for the new use.

               (i)

               Parking areas that utilize rights-of-way. In non-residential districts, parking areas which would require the use of public
               rights-of-way for maneuvering shall not be acceptable for the furnishing of required
               off-street parking spaces other than for one- and two-family dwellings. Parking parallel
               to the curb on a public street shall not be substituted for off-street requirements.
               Parking is limited to private property; the use of rights-of-way area between the
               property line and the back of the curb is contrary to this chapter.

               (j)

               Loading and unloading requirements. In non-residential districts, all business uses shall provide and maintain, in addition
               to other parking requirements, off-street facilities for the loading and unloading
               of merchandise and goods within the building or on the lot adjacent to a public alley
               or private service drive to facilitate the movement of traffic on the public street.
               The loading and unloading zone must be distinct from the drive lane. No portion of
               the drive lane shall be included as part of the loading and unloading zone. Such space
               shall consist of a minimum area of ten feet by 25 feet and be provided as follows:

                              Gross Floor Space (Sq. Ft.)

                              Loading or Unloading Berths

                              25,000 feet or less

                              1

                              25,001 to 84,000

                              2

                              84,001 to 156,000

                              3

                              156,001 to 236,000

                              4

                              Each 100,000 additional

                              1 additional

               &nbsp;

               (k)

               Handicapped parking spaces. In each parking facility in districts, MF, C-1, C-2, M-1, M-2, CBD, and I, a portion
               of the total parking shall be specifically designed, located, and reserved for vehicles
               licensed by the state for use by the handicapped. These spaces will be provided according
               to the following schedule:

                              Total Spaces in lot

                              Minimum No. of Handicapped Spaces

                              Up to 25

                              1

                              26 to 50

                              2

                              51 to 75

                              3

                              76 to 100

                              4

                              101 to 150

                              5

                              151 to 200

                              6

                              201 to 300

                              7

                              301 to 400

                              8

                              401 to 500

                              9

                              Over 501

                              2% of total

               &nbsp;

               Each parking space designated for use by the handicapped shall consist of a rectangular
               area not less than 13 feet wide by 18 feet long, with a vertical clearance of 7.5
               feet, shall be located in an area not exceeding two percent slope, and shall be located
               near and convenient to a level or ramped entrance accessible to handicapped persons.
               Parking spaces for the handicapped shall be signed in accordance with state law and
               restricted for use by the handicapped only.

               (l)

               Landscaping of parking lots. It is the purpose of this section to require incorporation of landscaping into the
               design and construction of parking areas while maintaining standards necessary for
               safe parking and maneuvering space. Within parking lots, landscaping shall be provided
               as follows:

               (1)

               New trees from the approved tree list contained in section 42-58(g).

               (2)

               Unless otherwise approved by the zoning administrator, trees planted to satisfy parking
               lot landscape requirements shall be chosen from the species specified by section 42-58(g).

               (3)

               Existing, on-site trees of any species that are of six inches minimum caliper, measured
               12 inches above grade may be counted towards landscaping requirements established
               for parking lots.

               (4)

               An irrigation system must be provided with all landscape plans. Irrigation plans shall
               comply with the design standards set forth by the Texas Commission on Environmental
               Quality, in Texas Administrative Code [tit.] 30, ch. 344, landscape irrigation.

               (5)

               Landscaping adjacent to public rights-of-way.

               a.

               A five-foot landscaped strip shall be provided adjacent to all public and private
               rights-of-way on lots with an area greater than one acre, but less than five acres.

               b.

               A ten-foot landscaped strip shall be provided adjacent to all public and private rights-of-way
               on lots with an area greater than five acres.

               c.

               Within landscaped strips adjacent to rights-of-way, landscaping shall be required
               as follows:

               1.

               One canopy tree or two ornamental trees, at a minimum three-inch caliper, for each
               60 linear feet of frontage.

               2.

               An average density of one, five-gallon evergreen shrub for each five linear feet of
               frontage provided, however, that any landscaping materials that will be located within
               ten feet of any public right-of-way shall not, at ultimate growth, exceed 30 inches
               in height above street grade unless otherwise permitted by the city. Shrubs may be
               grouped to provide variety in design.

               3.

               A landscaped berm may be provided in lieu of required shrubs. The berm must be an
               average height of three feet, but in no case less than 18 inches, above the average
               grade of the street and parking lot curbs, and must be planted with evergreen groundcover
               and/or shrubs to provide full plant coverage of the berm surface area. A variation
               in height of the berm is encouraged. Shrubs may be grouped to provide variety in design.
               The combined height of the berm and ultimate height of plant materials shall not exceed
               30 inches in height from street grade in any area that is within ten feet of a public
               right-of-way.

               (6)

               Parking lot interior.

               a.

               Developments with an area less than five acres shall be designed with a maximum of
               20 parking spaces between landscape islands. Parking aisles of 20 or more spaces in
               length shall terminate in landscape islands.

               b.

               Developments with an area five acres or greater shall provide one landscaped island
               at least 162 square feet in area for each 12 parking spaces.

               c.

               Within parking lot interiors, landscaping shall be provided as follows:

               1.

               One canopy tree or one ornamental tree at a minimum three inches in caliper per landscape
               island.

               2.

               Grass, evergreen ground cover or shrubs to a maximum ultimate height of 30 inches
               from parking lot grade, of a type that will provide full coverage of the landscape
               island shall be provided. Planted area shall be exclusive of the area within 18-inch
               radius from each required tree.

               3.

               Areas that are not covered with live plant materials shall be permanently maintained
               with natural mulch materials such as hard wood, pine bark, or other typical mulch
               materials.

               (7)

               Exception: accessible parking. The design and location of accessible parking spaces
               shall comply with the State of Texas Architectural Barriers Act. A landscape island
               may be omitted at an aisle termination for the purpose of providing required access
               to accessible parking spaces.

               (8)

               Landscape material which is located within the interior of a parking lot shall not
               create a visibility obstruction. A visibility obstruction within a parking lot is
               defined as landscaping between 24 inches in height and seven feet in height. No shrubs
               shall exceed 24 inches in height. Tree canopies shall be at least seven feet in height.

               (9)

               For large existing trees located in the parking area, which are being retained and
               incorporated into the landscaping plan, an appropriate aeration system or an alternative
               method of protecting the tree must be provided and detailed in the landscape plan.

               (10)

               For each landscaped island of at least ten feet by 20 feet located within a parking
               lot, credit for four parking spaces will be provided. Credit for parking spaces cannot
               reduce the overall parking requirement by more than ten percent or to less than ten
               total spaces.

               (11)

               Curbing or other protective devices or barriers shall be installed to protect landscaped
               areas from vehicular encroachment.

               (m)

               Safety standards for off-street parking.

               (1)

               Safety barriers, protective bumpers or curbing shall be provided to prevent encroachment
               onto abutting public or private property.

               (2)

               Visibility of and between pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists shall be assured
               when entering individual parking spaces, when circulating within a parking facility,
               and when entering and exiting a parking facility.

               (3)

               Internal circulation patterns, and the location and traffic direction of all access
               drives, shall be designed and maintained in accordance with accepted principles of
               traffic engineering and traffic safety.

               (4)

               Lighting. Lights provided to illuminate any parking facility or paved area shall,
               to the maximum extent feasible, be designed to reflect away from any residential use,
               and shall not cause glare to traffic on a public roadway.

               (5)

               Fencing and screening. A parking lot in any non-residential district which abuts residentially
               zoned property shall have a wall or privacy fence not less than six feet in height
               located for the length of the common property line. However, such a fence shall not
               be required within the front or exterior setback area of the nonresidential use.

               (6)

               Noise. Areas used for primary circulation, for frequent idling of vehicle engines,
               or for loading activities shall be designed and located to minimize impacts on adjoining
               properties, including provisions for screening or sound reduction.

               (7)

               Maintenance. All parking and loading facilities shall be maintained to assure desirability
               and usefulness of the facility. Such facilities shall be maintained free of refuse,
               debris, or other accumulated matter and shall at all times be available for the off-street
               parking or loading use for which they are required or intended.

               (8)

               Drainage. All parking facilities shall be graded and provided with permanent storm
               drainage facilities, meeting the construction specifications set by the city engineer.

               (n)

               Existing buildings. Nothing in this section shall require the furnishing of additional
               parking spaces for existing buildings which are not enlarged or changed to a new use.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-58.,Landscaping and screening standards.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 30-16.,"Signs, multitenant.","Primary and secondary permanent signs shall be permitted on commercial shopping center
               sites having multitenants in accordance with the following regulations:

                  (1)

                  Primary signs. Each commercial shopping center having multitenants is permitted one primary pole
                  or monument sign identifying the shopping center and the tenants within that center.
                  The dimensions of a primary sign shall be as follows:

                  a.

                  Area of primary signs.

                  1.

                  Pole sign: 200 square feet maximum.

                  2.

                  Monument sign: 100 square feet maximum.

                  b.

                  Height of primary signs.

                  1.

                  Pole sign: 30 feet maximum height.

                  2.

                  Monument sign: six feet maximum height.

                  (2)

                  Secondary signs. In a multitenant shopping center all signs in addition to the primary sign identifying
                  the center and the tenants within the center are secondary signs. Secondary signs
                  shall be permitted on multitenant shopping center sites in accordance with the following
                  regulations:

                  a.

                  Separation. All pole or monument type secondary signs shall be separated by a distance of at
                  least 100 feet.

                  b.

                  Number of signs. The total number of pole or monument type secondary signs shall be limited according
                  to the table as follows:

                                 Whole Shopping Center
                                 
                                 Leasable Square Feet

                                 Number of Secondary Pole
                                 
                                 or Monument Signs

                                 Up to 50,000 sq. ft.

                                 1

                                 50,000 to 100,000 sq. ft.

                                 2

                                 100,000 sq. ft.

                                 3

                  &nbsp;

                  c.

                  Area of secondary signs.

                  1.

                  Maximum area for a secondary pole sign: 60 square feet.

                  2.

                  Maximum area for a secondary monument sign: 48 square feet.

                  d.

                  Height of secondary signs.

                  1.

                  Maximum height for a secondary pole sign: 25 feet.

                  2.

                  Maximum height for secondary monument sign: six feet.

                  (3)

                  Other signs. Each tenant may be permitted one additional sign, which will be limited to one of
                  the following: a canopy, marquee, wall, reader board, or nameplate sign meeting the
                  requirements of Table I, Schedule of Permanent Signs, as set forth in section 30-22.

               (Code 2008, § 111.16)"
Sec. 30-17.,Illumination.,"Signs may be illuminated provided that the provisions of this section are complied
               with:

                  (1)

                  Brightness limitations. The lighting intensity of a sign, whether resulting from internal illumination or
                  external illumination, shall not exceed 75 footcandles when measured with a standard
                  light meter perpendicular to the face of the sign from a distance equal to the most
                  narrow dimension of the sign.

                  (2)

                  Glare. Signs shall be designed, located, shielded, and directed to prevent the casting of
                  glare or direct light from artificial illumination, upon adjacent public right-of-way
                  and surrounding property.

                  (3)

                  Electrical permit. All signs in which electrical wiring and connections are to be used shall be subject
                  to the applicable provisions of the city's electrical code.

               (Code 2008, § 111.17)"
Sec. 30-18.,Visibility triangle.,"No permanent sign shall be located within or block the visibility triangle as depicted
               in the graphic in section 30-23. Temporary signs shall be permitted within the visibility triangle if they are less
               than three feet tall and comply with all other city rules and regulations.

               (Code 2008, § 111.18; Ord. No. 2011-019, § 4, 6-20-2011)"
Sec. 30-19.,Noncommercial message.,"Any sign authorized in this chapter is allowed to contain a noncommercial message
               in place of any other authorized message.

               (Code 2008, § 111.19)"
Sec. 30-20.,Conversion of portable signs to permanent signs.,"Portable signs may be converted into permanent signs by permanently affixing the portable
               sign to a foundation or pole. In order to convert a portable sign, the applicant must
               submit a diagram indicating the structural design of the proposed permanent sign to
               be reviewed by the code enforcement officer.

               (Code 2008, § 111.20; Ord. No. 2001-008, 11-27-2000)"
DIVISION 1.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 1, §§ 42-176—42-185, in its entirety.
               Former div. 1 pertained to ""Generally"" and was derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§
               2-1, 2-2, 3—6, 27—30, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2005-010, adopted March
               21, 2005; Ord. No. 2009-002, §§ 2A, 2B, adopted January 19, 2009 and Ord. No. 2011-002,
               § 12, adopted February 21, 2011."
Secs. 42-176—42-208.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 30-21.,Variances.,"(a)

               Variance authorized. The city council may authorize variances to any restriction set forth in this chapter,
               including but not limited to the number, type, area, height, or setback of signs,
               or any other aspect involved in the sign permitting process.

               (b)

               Approval standards. In granting any variance, city council shall consider the following criteria:

               (1)

               Special conditions exist which are peculiar to the land, structure or building involved
               and are not applicable to other lands, buildings or structures in the same zone. The
               city may attach such conditions to granting all or a portion of any variance necessary
               to achieve the purpose of this chapter;

               (2)

               The strict interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant
               of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same zone under the terms of
               this chapter;

               (3)

               The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of the applicant
               and such conditions and circumstances do not merely constitute pecuniary hardship
               or inconveniences;

               (4)

               Granting the variance will meet the objectives of this chapter and not be injurious
               to the adjoining property owners or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;

               (5)

               The request will be the minimum variance necessary to alleviate the special hardship
               or practical difficulties faced by the applicant in meeting the requirements of this
               chapter; and

               (6)

               Granting of the variance will be in harmony with the spirit and purpose of this chapter.

               (c)

               Application process. Any request for a variance shall be made to the city manager, or his designated representative,
               and be accompanied by a completed application and a nonrefundable filing fee in the
               amount specified in the current fee schedule adopted by city council.

               (Ord. No. 2009-01, § 1(111.21), 1-19-2009)"
Sec. 30-22.,Tables.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 30-23.,Graphic.,"Visibility or sight triangle: The area of unobstructed view required at every street intersection and at the intersection
               of driveways and streets. Unobstructed view must be maintained in an area between
               the heights of three feet and seven feet above the height of the adjacent roadway
               in a triangle formed by the intersection's corner points on the curb 25 feet from
               the intersection's corner.

               Sight Triangle

               (Code 2008, ch. 111, graphic)"
Sec. 30-24.,Kiosk signs.,"(a)

               The city council may, by duly executed license agreement, grant the exclusive right
               to design, erect and maintain kiosk signs within the city limits of the city.

               (b)

               Kiosk signs shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the specifications
               contained in the aforementioned license agreement and in this section.

               (c)

               Prior to erecting any kiosk sign, the licensee shall submit a sign location map to
               the city manager for approval. The sign location map shall contain the location, orientation,
               and number of individual location signs available for each kiosk sign.

               (d)

               Kiosk sign installation shall include break-away design features as required for traffic
               signs in the street right-of-way.

               (e)

               Advertisement of price information shall be prohibited on kiosk signs.

               (f)

               No additional or extraneous signs, pennants, flags or other devices for visual attention
               or other appurtenances may be attached to kiosk signs.

               (g)

               Kiosk signs shall not be illuminated.

               (h)

               Individual sign panels on kiosks shall have a uniform design and color.

               (i)

               Kiosk signs shall not:

               (1)

               Interfere with the use of sidewalks, walkways, bike and hiking trails;

               (2)

               Obstruct the visibility of motorists, pedestrians or traffic control signs; or

               (3)

               Be installed in the immediate vicinity of street intersections.

               (j)

               Signs shall comply with the visibility triangle requirements contained in the subdivision
               regulations or other visibility easements provided by code or subdivision plat.

               (k)

               Kiosk sign plazas may be located on private premises along the I-35 and Highway 67,
               other state-maintained roadways, or other private properties within the city on any
               city street provided written permission is obtained from the premises owner.

               (l)

               Kiosk signs are intended to create a uniform coordinated method of providing direction
               for prospective patrons of local businesses, prospective purchasers of houses, and
               parties interested in school or municipal events and facilities within the city limits
               while discouraging the placement of other unsightly and hazardous off-site directional
               signs.

               (m)

               In accordance to the specifications contained in the aforementioned license agreement
               a minimum of two kiosk sign panels per location shall be reserved for the city to
               use as directional signage to municipal or community facilities, or locations for
               community events.

               (n)

               The licensee shall be responsible for all construction, installation, maintenance
               and repair of the kiosk signs at no cost to the city.

               (o)

               Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any sign authorized under
               this section to contain commercial copy may contain noncommercial copy in lieu of
               commercial copy.

               (p)

               The licensee shall administer the kiosk signs and shall fill the individual location
               sign spaces in accordance with the following criteria:

               (1)

               The spaces shall be filled according to the date the requesting location submits an
               application or request is received by the licensee on a first-come, first-served basis.

               (2)

               The number of kiosk signs and spaces on each sign shall be set by the sign location
               map approved by the economic development director. The licensee may request the placement
               of additional kiosk signs only if the number of unserved requests will fill an additional
               sign.

               (3)

               The licensee shall have no discretion to award or not award a space on a kiosk sign
               based on the type of organization or business that requests placement on a kiosk sign.

               (4)

               The locations listed on a kiosk sign must be within the city limits or ETJ of the
               city.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2018-013
                  
               , § 1, 7-16-2018)"
Chapter 32,"STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES","Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Public buildings and grounds, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 281 et seq.; parks
               and other recreational and cultural resources, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch.
               306 et seq."
Sec. 32-4.,Public utilities in streets and alleys.,"(a)

               Any person desiring to install any water meter, gas meter, light pole, power pole,
               telephone or telegraph pole, or any water, gas, or sewer service lines along any street
               or alley in the city shall install same in accordance with the standard specifications
               adopted by the city and on file in the office of the director of public works.

               (b)

               Written application shall be made to the director of public works at least 36 hours
               in advance of the start of any installation or construction, and the application shall
               set out the location and other pertinent facts concerning the proposed installation
               or construction. Approval of the director of public works must be obtained prior to
               starting the work.

               (Code 2008, § 96.04)"
Sec. 32-5.,Vehicles dropping loads.,"It shall be unlawful for any owner, driver, or person in charge of, in possession
               of, or in control of any wagon, truck, automobile, or other vehicle, to cause, allow,
               or permit trash, rock, dirt, garbage, debris, or other substance to be dropped or
               to fall from such wagon, truck, automobile, or other vehicle upon any street, alley,
               or other public way within the city. The provisions of this section shall not apply
               to work done on any street, alley, or other public way by or under the direction of
               the city.

               (Code 2008, § 96.05)"
Sec. 32-6.,"Fences and structures on public streets, alleys prohibited.","No person shall erect any fence or other structure on any public street, alley, or
               easement without the express permission of the city council.

               (Code 2008, § 96.06; Ord. No. 99-009, 10-26-1998)"
Sec. 32-7.,Use of streets and street right-of-ways restricted.,"No person shall store or display any merchandise or other item or sell any merchandise
               on or in any public street or public street right-of-way within the city.

               (Code 2008, § 96.07; Ord. No. 99-009, 10-26-1998)"
Chapter 34,SUBDIVISIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Regulation of subdivision and property development, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code
               ch. 212; extraterritorial jurisdiction of municipalities, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code ch. 42; extraterritorial jurisdiction of municipalities in counties that regulate subdivisions,
               V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 242; municipal annexation, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code ch. 43."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 34-1.,Compliance required.,"(a)

               On and after the passage of this chapter, any person seeking approval of any plat,
               plan, or replat of any subdivision of land within the city and its legally established
               extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be required to comply with the requirements of
               this chapter before such approval may be granted.

               (b)

               These regulations shall govern every person, firm, association, or corporation owning
               any tract of land within the corporate limits or the extraterritorial jurisdiction
               of the city who may hereafter divide the same into two or more parts for the purpose
               of laying out any subdivision of any tract of land or any addition to said city, or
               for laying out suburban lots or building lots, or any lots, streets, alleys, parks,
               or other portions intended for public use or the use of purchasers or owners of lots
               fronting thereon or adjacent thereto.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 1.1, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-2.,Provisions to be minimum standards.,"It is the intention of the city council that the principles, standards, and requirements
               provided herein shall be minimum requirements for the platting and developing of subdivisions
               in the city and in its extraterritorial jurisdiction. Where other ordinances of the
               city are more restrictive in their requirements, such ordinances shall control.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 1.2, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-3.,Rules of construction and definitions.,"For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives
               shall have the meanings given herein. Definitions not expressly prescribed herein
               are to be determined in accordance with customary usage in municipal planning and
               engineering practices.

               Alley means a minor way used primarily for vehicular and/or utility service to the rear
               or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.

               Approved plat means a plat which has been approved in accordance with the requirements of this
               chapter and which has been filed for record with the county clerk of the county in
               which the subdivision is located.

               Commission means the planning and zoning commission of the city.

               Corner lot means a lot that has frontage upon a side street in addition to a front street.

               Easement means a right granted for the purpose of limited public or semi-public use across,
               over, or under private land.

               Exaction requirement means a requirement imposed as a condition for approval of a plat, preliminary plat,
               building permit, planned development district or other development permit application
               to:

                  (1)

                  Dedicate an interest in land for a public infrastructure improvement;

                  (2)

                  Construct a public infrastructure improvement; or

                  (3)

                  Pay a fee in lieu of constructing a public infrastructure improvement.

               Extraterritorial jurisdiction means that area of land lying outside and adjacent to the corporate limits of the
               city over which the city has legal control as set forth in V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code ch. 42.

               Lot means land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory buildings and
               including such open spaces as are required by ordinances of the City of Alvarado,
               Texas, and having its principal frontage upon a public street or officially approved
               place.

               Lot of record means any lot that is part of a subdivision the plat of which has been recorded in
               the office of the clerk of the county in which the plat has been recorded.

               Plan for development means a plan for outlining the proposed use of a tract or tracts of land, which provides
               fair notice of the project and the nature of the permit sought. It includes, but is
               not limited to the following: an application for approval of a plat, an application
               for approval of a planned development district or specific use permit, site plan,
               or a graphic depiction or sketch of the tract which reflects the proposed uses of
               land and location within the tract and the general layout of streets and parks or
               other open spaces.

               Plat means a complete and exact subdivision plan submitted to the city council which if
               approved shall be submitted to the clerk of the county in which the plat is located
               for recording.

               Public facilities system refers to the water, wastewater, roadway, drainage, or parks facilities owned or
               operated by or on behalf of the city to provide services to the public, including
               existing and new developments and subdivisions.

               Public infrastructure improvement means a water, wastewater, roadway, drainage, or park facility that is a part of
               one or more of the city's public facilities systems.

               Resubdivision means the division of an existing subdivision, or the relocation of any street lines.

               Street means a way for vehicular traffic and other public uses, whether designated a street,
               highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place,
               or however otherwise designated.

                  (1)

                  Arterial or major streets and highways means streets used primarily for fast or heavy traffic as designated in the thoroughfare
                  plan.

                  (2)

                  Collector streets means those streets which carry traffic from minor streets to major system of arterial
                  streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets of a residential development
                  or business park and those streets for circulation within such a development as designated
                  on the thoroughfare plan.

                  (3)

                  Minor, local, or residential streets means those streets that are used primarily for access to abutting properties.

                  (4)

                  Marginal access streets means those minor streets which are parallel to and adjacent to arterial streets
                  and highways and which provide access to abutting properties and protection from through
                  traffic.

                  (5)

                  Cul-de-sac means a short minor street having only one vehicular access to another street and
                  terminated by a vehicular turnaround.

                  (6)

                  Dead-end street means a street, other than a cul-de-sac, with only one outlet.

               Subdivider refers to any person or any agent thereof, dividing or proposing to divide land so
               as to constitute a subdivision. Furthermore, the term ""subdivider"" shall be restricted
               to include only the owner, equitable owner, or authorized agent of such owner or equitable
               owner of land sought to be subdivided. The terms ""subdivider"" and ""developer"" are
               used interchangeably in this chapter.

               Subdivision means the division of a tract in two or more parts to lay out a subdivision of the
               tract, including an addition to the city, to lay out suburban, building, or other
               lots, or to lay out streets, alleys, squares, parks, or other parts of the tract intended
               to be dedicated to public use or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting
               on or adjacent to the streets, alleys, squares, parks, or other parts must have a
               plat of the subdivision prepared. A division of a tract under this definition includes
               a division regardless of whether it is made by using a metes and bounds description
               in a deed of conveyance or in a contract for a deed, by using a contract of sale or
               other executory contract to convey, or by using any other method. A division of land
               under this definition does not include a division of land into parts greater than
               five acres, where each part has access and no public improvement is being dedicated.

               Zoning administrator means the person so designated by the city council to administer the provisions of
               this chapter.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 2, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2006-030, 6-19-2006; Ord. No. 2006-034,
               7-17-2006)"
DIVISION 4.,SF-2—SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT-2,NULL
Secs. 42-259—42-263.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed §§ 42-259—42-263. Former §§ 42-259—42-263 pertained to ""General purpose
               and description""; ""Permitted uses""; ""Permitted specific uses""; ""Height and area regulations"";
               ""Parking regulations"", respectively, and were derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 9.1—9.5,
               adopted February 17, 2004 and Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2D(9.5) adopted January 19, 2009."
DIVISION 7.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (7) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 7, §§ 42-355—42-360, in its entirety.
               Former div. 7 pertained to ""MH-2—Manufactured Home Subdivision District"" and was derived
               from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 13.1—13.6, adopted February 17, 2004 and Ord. No. 2009-002,
               § 2H(13.5), adopted January 19, 2009."
Secs. 42-355—42-364.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 34-4.,"Purpose, authority and jurisdiction.","(a)

               Authority. The ordinance from which this chapter is derived is adopted under the authority of
               the Constitution and laws of the state, including particularly V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code chs. 43, 212 and 242.

               (b)

               Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, safe, and healthful development
               of the area within the city and within the area surrounding the city and to promote
               the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the community by securing adequate
               provision for traffic, light, air, recreation, transportation, water, drainage, sewage,
               and other facilities.

               (c)

               Jurisdiction.

               (1)

               Any owner of land located inside the corporate limits of the city wishing to subdivide
               such land or otherwise create a building site shall submit to the planning and zoning
               commission a plan of subdivision or plat that shall conform to the minimum requirements
               set forth in these regulations.

               (2)

               Any owner subdividing land or otherwise creating a building site outside the corporate
               limits of the city but within its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall submit a plan
               of subdivision or plat to the planning and zoning commission and to the appropriate
               county authorities which shall conform to V.T.C.A., Local Government Code chs. 42 and 242 and the minimum requirements set forth in these regulations.

               (d)

               Approval required. No subdivision plat shall be filed or recorded and no lot in a subdivision inside
               the corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall
               be improved or sold until the plat shall have been approved by the city council. No
               building site shall be created, improved, or sold within the city or within its extraterritorial
               jurisdiction until a plat shall have been approved by the city council.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 3, 4-26-1999;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 1, 6-19-2017
                  
               )"
Secs. 34-8—34-32.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLAT,NULL
Secs. 34-67—34-90.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,PARKLAND DEDICATION,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 4, adopted June 19, 2017
                  
               , amended the title of art. IV to read as set out herein. Previously art. IV was titled
               ""General Regulations."""
Sec. 34-91.,Policy and requirement for dedication.,"The following policy will provide recreational areas in the form of neighborhood,
               community, regional, greenbelt and central parks in conjunction with subdivision development:

                  (1)

                  Every developer who subdivides land within the city limits for the establishment of
                  four or more residential units (all single-family, two-family or multifamily zoning
                  included) shall dedicate a portion of the land, or pay cash in lieu of land, in accordance
                  with this article, to provide park and recreational facilities to serve future residents
                  of the subdivision or city.

                  a.

                  Planning.

                  1.

                  The implementation of this section shall generally follow the city's comprehensive
                  plan and any applicable parks or open space master plan. The city council may develop
                  implementation guidelines to ensure the fair and objective application of the parkland
                  dedication policy.

                  2.

                  The city manager and developer shall have the authority to negotiate an equitable
                  combination of parkland dedication and/or cash-in-lieu and/or credits related to the
                  same which satisfies the requirements of this article. Terms of this negotiation shall
                  be presented to the planning and zoning commission and the city council for approval.

                  3.

                  Where recreation facilities are built for the residents of a subdivision development,
                  a credit may be given to the developer/owner for all or a portion of the land dedication
                  (or fee-in-lieu thereof) based on the value of the developed park. At the discretion
                  of the city council, a credit of up to 100 percent of the total amount of dedication
                  or cash-in-lieu may be issued.

                  4.

                  Park infrastructure.

                  i.

                  The developer shall bear the cost of all improvements, including streets, water, sewer,
                  storm drainage and street frontage directly related to park sites between three acres
                  and 20 acres in size.

                  ii.

                  The developer shall provide no less than 150 feet of street frontage for each three
                  acres of parkland. The required frontage can be a combination of contiguous park access
                  drives, street frontage and access easements. Credit may also be given for access
                  easements that allow access into the park from the surrounding neighborhood.

                  b.

                  Application. All new residential subdivisions containing four or more residential lots or dwelling
                  units in the city require an application pursuant to this article.

                  c.

                  Parks defined. The term ""park"" means land dedicated to the city specifically for development and
                  use as a public recreational facility. Parks shall be classified as determined by
                  the city manager.

                  (2)

                  Site selection and characteristics of parkland.

                  a.

                  Suitability for parks and recreation purposes. Any land dedicated to the City under this section must be suitable for parks and
                  recreational uses.

                  1.

                  In selecting a site for a park, the city will avoid an accumulation of noncontiguous
                  parcels of land or an accumulation of land unsuitable for park purposes.

                  2.

                  Park sites will be selected on the basis of obtaining natural, parklike settings where
                  available and will consist of diverse topography and open space suitable for the development
                  of recreational facilities.

                  3.

                  If a subdivision cannot provide the minimum three-acre parcel or a smaller parcel
                  which can potentially be contiguous to existing or future park parcels, then a fee
                  in lieu of parkland or a combination of fee and parkland dedication may be required
                  and accepted at the discretion of the city council.

                  4.

                  Park sites will be located, whenever possible, adjacent to and contiguous with school
                  sites and other public or nonprofit agency sites in order to make maximum use of common
                  public facilities and grounds.

                  5.

                  Careful consideration will be given to the need for development of linear parks around
                  natural drainage and wooded areas that provide potential recreational uses. The floodplain
                  (based upon 100-year storm) and floodway will be accepted for park development in
                  the following ratios:

                  i.

                  Floodplain and natural drainage areas should not exceed 75 percent of the total park
                  site.

                  ii.

                  At least 50 percent of the required dedicated parkland should have slopes in range
                  of two to five percent, well-drained, and suitable for active use development.

                  iii.

                  Floodplain acreage will be accepted at a ratio of one to one (one floodplain to one
                  dedication requirement). There will be no reduction in credit for dedication of floodplain
                  as compared to non-floodplain property, provided the dedication satisfies subsections
                  (2)a.5.i. and (2)a.5.ii. Floodway property is accepted at a ratio of 50 percent of
                  the required dedication.

                  iv.

                  When development occurs near a floodway that is designated as part of the city's trail
                  system or determined to be suitable for trail development by the city council, the
                  developer will be required to develop that section of the trail system that occurs
                  within the development. The developer will construct the trails and adjacent facilities
                  in accordance with the city's design criteria and specifications for parks. In order
                  to facilitate trail development, the city council may, at its discretion, credit the
                  developer up to 100 percent of the required land dedication. The cost for the trail's
                  development will be borne by the developer.

                  6.

                  Proposed boundaries of park dedications will provide reasonable access to improved
                  street frontage for readily accessible entry into the park area by the public.

                  b.

                  Public accesses. Each park must have access to a public street.

                  (3)

                  Land dedication.

                  a.

                  Minimum requirement. For each submitted residential preliminary plat subdivision,
                  the minimum parkland dedication requirement is one acre of parkland per 100 units.
                  This property is accepted at the ratios and specifications as set forth in subsection
                  (2).

                  b.

                  Any required conveyance of land from any proposed subdivision residential development
                  will be keyed to the units/density of the population to be served within the neighborhood.

                  c.

                  Where a subdivision plat is submitted indicating multifamily residential development,
                  and a table of information is not provided indicating the number of dwelling units,
                  the City will assume the highest density allowed in the zoning classification to be
                  applied to the property by which to determine projected population in order to determine
                  park dedication policy requirements.

                  d.

                  All determinations of required land dedication will be based upon review of all preliminary
                  subdivision plats when submitted to the city. Failure to indicate proposed park dedications
                  on the submitted preliminary plat will be sufficient grounds for the city to deny
                  a concept plan or preliminary plat. Upon final agreement between the city and the
                  developer/owner regarding mutually acceptable parkland, such land will be indicated
                  on the revised preliminary plat and final plat. Such park property will be conveyed
                  by warranty deed or special warranty deed, which conveyance shall be free of all liens
                  and encumbrances, before release of the final plat on any or all portions of the subdivision
                  thereof by the city for filing in the county plat records. Submission of park dedication
                  documents is required for final plat. Park dedication documents include the following:

                  1.

                  A metes and bunds description of the park dedication property.

                  2.

                  A survey plat of the park property only.

                  3.

                  A copy of the developer's deed for the property (demonstrating ownership and right
                  to dedicate to city).

                  4.

                  An environmental statement (ESA Phase 1) that indicates that the park site (or the
                  subdivision from which the park is dedicated) is free of environmental contamination
                  or hazards, and documents conveying ownership to the City which may be either:

                  i.

                  A special warranty deed and title policy provided by the developer to the city insuring
                  the city in an amount equal to the value of the dedicated property; or

                  ii.

                  A general warranty deed.

                  e.

                  The city prefers that land to be conveyed for park dedication be located inside the
                  subdivision development. The city may choose to accept land conveyed for park dedication
                  at a location outside the subdivision development so long as the land is of such proximity
                  to the development so as to serve or benefit the neighborhood residents.

                  f.

                  If a replat is filed, the dedication requirements will be controlled by the policy
                  in effect at the time of replat. Additional land dedication (or cash-in-lieu of) will
                  be required if the actual density of structures constructed on the property is greater
                  than the former assumed density or additional requirements are in force as a result
                  of the adoption of this policy.

                  g.

                  Prior to the dedication the city, at its discretion, may proceed to conduct such initial
                  construction inspections, environmental tests and surveys on the land and improvements
                  as it may deem appropriate, and the developer/owner must grant to the city and its
                  agents and employees such reasonable access to the land as is necessary to conduct
                  such construction inspections, surveys, and tests.

                  h.

                  If the results of such construction inspections, surveys and tests indicate a reasonable
                  possibility of construction failure, construction dumping, flawed construction, environmental
                  contamination or the presence of U.S.T.'s, or other environmental hazards the city
                  may require further surveys and tests to be performed at the developer/owner's expense
                  as the city may deem necessary prior to its acceptance of the dedication and improvements,
                  or in the alternative, the developer/owner may be required to identify alternative
                  property or pay the cash-in-lieu of such parkland dedication.

                  (4)

                  Payment of cash-in-lieu of parkland dedication.

                  a.

                  If the calculation for required park dedication within the proposed subdivision development
                  results in less than three acres and/or does not meet site selection criteria as per
                  subsection (3), the city council may require cash-in-lieu of parkland dedication.

                  b.

                  All fees collected in lieu of parkland dedication will be used to provide adequate
                  parkland or access to parkland for the proposed subdivision development. However,
                  if acquisition and development of a park is not achievable within the proposed subdivision
                  development, then the city council will:

                  1.

                  Have the discretion of determining if park and recreational needs of the proposed
                  subdivision development would be better served by the expansion of existing park sites
                  located within or near the same neighborhood unit where the proposed subdivision development
                  is located.

                  2.

                  If such acquisition opportunities are not available, then areas within adjacent subdivisions
                  may be considered for acquisition if it will beneficially serve the residents of the
                  proposed subdivision development.

                  c.

                  The amount of the cash-in-lieu of parkland dedication fee will be determined by the
                  following method:

                  1.

                  The amount equal to the fair market value of the required land dedication and, if
                  applicable, less a credit for the value of the land actually dedicated for park and
                  recreational purposes;

                  2.

                  The fair market value may be determined by the city through independent biennial appraisals
                  of comparable properties. If the developer/owner disagrees with the city's appraisal,
                  the developer at his own expense, may obtain an appraisal of the property by a state-certified
                  real estate appraiser, mutually agreed upon by the city and the developer/owner, which
                  may be considered by the city in determining fair market value.

                  3.

                  If the property was acquired by the developer within the last year, the developer
                  may submit the contract for sale or appraisal documents related to the acquisition
                  of the property to be considered by the city in determining fair market value.

                  (5)

                  Open space and parkland offsets. Should the density caps contained within a given
                  zoning district result in unused acreage or ""open space"" in a development, the additional
                  ""space"" will offset the corresponding amount of park land dedication, providing the
                  land meets the following requirements:

                  a.

                  The additional ""open space"" is suitable to provide useful recreational functions such
                  as: linear destination trails, connectivity to neighborhood facilities including shopping
                  or schools and active park/recreation facilities.

                  b.

                  The ""open space"" meets the requirements listed in this article.

                  c.

                  The property designated as ""open space"" is maintained by the development through the
                  institution of a homeowners association (HOA) or a public improvement district (PID).

                  (6)

                  Additional information concerning fees.

                  a.

                  All required fees will be paid and received before the recording of the final plat
                  on any or all portions of the subdivision indicated on the original preliminary plat
                  thereof by the city for filing in the county plat records.

                  b.

                  All payments made in accordance with this policy will be deposited in a designated
                  fund as established by the city. The city will account for all such funds paid with
                  reference to each subdivision development. Interest earned on accumulated park acquisition
                  and development fees designated for a specific subdivision development will be used
                  for additional acquisition and development as described in this policy.

                  (7)

                  Decision-making; appeals.

                  a.

                  Unless otherwise provided in this policy, any decision will initially be made by the
                  city council based upon recommendations from the staff.

                  b.

                  Decisions of the city manager with regard to the application of this section may be
                  appealed first to the planning and zoning commission and the city council.

                  c.

                  There may be certain situations and circumstances which are unforeseen which arise
                  with respect to certain tracts of land to be developed, including those parcels which
                  were in final plat stage at the time of the passage of the original park land dedication
                  ordinance, which require special attention and consideration by the city council;
                  and the city council, upon showing of unusual and practical difficulties or unnecessary
                  hardships in the carrying out of the provisions of this section due to the topography
                  or other conditions, and not merely a convenience to the applicant, may permit an
                  exception in the strict application of this section, provided such exception will
                  not seriously affect adjoining property or the general welfare of the community. Any
                  variance granted shall not establish a precedent for other tracts and each parcel
                  or development shall comply with the terms of this section, unless the criteria for
                  an exception set forth above are met.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 6.1, 4-26-1999;
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 4, 6-19-2017
                  
               )

            Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 4, adopted June 19, 2017
                  
               , amended § 34-91 to read as set out herein. Previously § 34-91 was titled ""Park land
               dedication."""
Sec. 34-5.,Filing fees and charges.,"(a)

               The fees and charges as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution
               of the city council from time to time shall be paid to the city when any plat is tendered
               to the planning and zoning commission, city council, or any other authorized board
               or agency of the city. Each of the fees and charges shall be paid in advance, and
               no action of the commission, the city council or any other board or agency shall be
               valid until the fee shall have been paid to the officer designated therein. These
               fees shall be charged on all plats, regardless of the action taken by the planning
               and zoning commission and the city council, and whether the plat is approved or denied.
               The subdivider shall cause a check to be made payable to the city to cover all recording
               fees involved in finishing the platting process and have this delivered to the city
               secretary prior to the submission for approval.

               (b)

               In the event of a replat, the subdivider shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred
               in the process of carrying out all replatting requirements as outlined in section 34-167(m).

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 9, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 99-017, 1-11-1999; Ord. No. 99-038, 6-14-1999)"
Sec. 34-6.,Maintenance bond.,"In the event a subdivider develops independently of the city furnishing engineering
               and inspection of required improvements, the subdivider shall furnish a good and sufficient
               maintenance bond with a reputable and solvent corporate surety, in favor of the city,
               to indemnify the city against any repairs which may become necessary to any part of
               the construction work performed in connection with the subdivision, arising from defective
               workmanship or materials used therein, for a full period of two years from the date
               of final acceptance of the entire project. Final acceptance will be withheld until
               said maintenance bond is furnished to the city attorney for approval. The maintenance
               bond shall have attached thereto a copy of the contract for such improvements and
               such other information and data necessary to determine the validity and enforceability
               of such bond. When the bond has been examined and approved, the city attorney shall
               furnish the city council with a written certification that the maintenance bond is
               valid and enforceable as regards all improvements required by subdivisions, which
               have not been approved as provided by law and further, no permits shall be issued
               by the building inspector of the city on any piece of property other than an original
               or a resubdivided lot in a duly approved and recorded subdivision or on a lot of separate
               ownership of record prior to the adoption of the subdivision ordinance.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 10, 4-26-1999;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-030, § 1, 10-20-2014
                  
               )"
Sec. 34-7.,Conflict with other ordinances.,"Whenever the standards and specifications in this chapter conflict with those contained
               in another ordinance, the most stringent or restrictive provision shall govern.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 11, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-33.,Preapplication.,"The subdivider of property shall:

                  (1)

                  Consult early and informally with the zoning administrator.

                  (2)

                  Avail himself of the advice and assistance of the zoning administrator.

                  (3)

                  For property located outside the corporate limits of the city but within its extraterritorial
                  jurisdiction, consult with the county judge or his designated appointee in relation
                  to those requirements established by the county for property located outside the corporate
                  limits of the city. The zoning administrator shall:

                  a.

                  Informally confer with subdivider.

                  b.

                  Advise and assist the subdivider in procedure for approval of plats and on regulations
                  and policies of the city regarding development either within the corporate limits
                  of the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.1, 4-26-1999)"
DIVISION 7A.,MH-3—MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION DISTRICT,NULL
Sec. 42-365.,General purpose and description.,"The MH-3 manufactured home subdivision district is intended to provide for quality
               manufactured home subdivision development containing most of the characteristics and
               atmosphere of a standard single-family residential subdivision.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 42-366.,Permitted uses.,"A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes: uses as listed
               in division 17 of this article.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 42-367.,Permitted specific uses.,"The following specific uses shall be permitted in the MH-3 district, when granted
               in accordance with division 17 of this article: uses as listed in division 17 of this article.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 42-368.,"Height, setback, and area regulations.","See section 42-660, pertaining to area, setback, height, and coverage regulations.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 42-369.,Parking requirements.,"Off-street parking requirements shall be provided in accordance with article V of
               this chapter.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 34-34.,Approval procedure for preliminary plat.,"(a)

               The subdivider shall submit to the city no later than 20 days prior to the commission
               meeting at which it is to be considered:

               (1)

               Filing fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city
               council from time to time.

               (2)

               Ten copies of plat stamped ""Preliminary Plat.""

               (3)

               Ten copies of a letter of transmittal, stating briefly the type of street surfacing,
               drainage, sanitary facilities, and water supply proposed, and the name and address
               of the owner or agent, engineer, and surveyor.

               (4)

               Supplementary materials as applicable in other sections of these regulations.

               The preliminary plat shall not be considered as filed until all information, materials,
               and documents required for preliminary plat approval have been filed with the zoning
               administrator and the zoning administrator has verified, in writing, that all such
               information, materials, and documents have been submitted.

               (b)

               The zoning administrator shall:

               (1)

               Conduct a study of plats and materials submitted.

               (2)

               Request written reports from departments and utilities if deemed necessary.

               (3)

               Transmit plats and reports to the planning and zoning commission for review.

               (4)

               Consult with the city's consulting engineer, the subdivider's engineer, the private
               utility companies, and the school district.

               (5)

               Schedule preliminary review with the subdivider.

               (c)

               The planning and zoning commission shall:

               (1)

               Act within 30 days after the filing of preliminary plat.

               (2)

               Submit one of the following recommendations to the city council. The recommendation
               shall be submitted in writing, with appropriate signature and date of action by the
               PZC.

               a.

               Approve.

               b.

               Approve with conditions.

               c.

               Disapprove.

               (3)

               Make notes on two copies of preliminary plat as to action taken.

               (d)

               The city council shall, within 30 days after the planning and zoning commission has
               submitted its recommendation, conclude one of the following:

               (1)

               Preliminary plat approved.

               (2)

               Preliminary plat approved with conditions.

               (3)

               Preliminary plat not approved but may be returned for further consideration by the
               planning and zoning commission.

               (4)

               Preliminary plat not approved. The developer may prepare a new concept and resubmit.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.2, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-35.,Conditions of preliminary plat approval.,"(a)

               Conditional approval shall be considered to be the approval of a plat or replat until
               such conditions are complied with. All objections made to the preliminary plat, or
               conditions imposed, shall be furnished to the subdivider in writing. If no decision
               is rendered by the commission within the 30-day period described above or such longer
               period as may have been agreed to by the subdivider and commission, the preliminary
               plat, as submitted, shall be deemed to be recommended for approval to the city council.

               (b)

               Approval of the preliminary plat shall be deemed an expression of approval of the
               layout only and shall not constitute acceptance of the final plat.

               (c)

               Preliminary approval will expire six months after the approval by the city council
               of the preliminary plat or of sections thereof. The subdivider may apply in writing
               for an extension prior to the end of such six-month period. This period may be extended
               six months but not beyond a total of one year.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.3, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-36.,Approval procedure for final plat.,"(a)

               The subdivider shall:

               (1)

               Conform to preliminary plat as approved.

               (2)

               Incorporate all changes, directions, and additions imposed by the city.

               (3)

               Submit to the city no later than 20 days prior to the commission meeting at which
               it is to be considered:

               a.

               Three sets of detailed plans signed by a registered professional engineer showing
               details of streets, alleys, culverts, bridges, storm sewers, water mains, sanitary
               sewers and other engineering details; and

               b.

               Ten copies and one sepia of the final plat with all conditional changes and proper
               signatures, prepared and signed by a registered public surveyor, and containing the
               notarized signature of the owner of the property and dedicatory language for all property
               to be dedicated for any public purpose, including streets and utility easements.

               The final plat shall not be considered as filed until all information, materials,
               and documents required for final plat approval have been filed with the zoning administrator
               and the zoning administrator has verified, in writing, that all such information,
               materials, and documents have been submitted.

               (b)

               The zoning administrator shall:

               (1)

               Make a study of the plats, engineering plans, and reports, and submit plans to the
               city consulting engineer for written recommendation.

               (2)

               Request written reports from departments and utilities if deemed necessary.

               (3)

               Make available plats and reports to the planning and zoning commission for review.

               (c)

               The planning and zoning commission shall:

               (1)

               Act within 30 days after the submittal of the final plat and engineering plan.

               (2)

               Submit one of the following recommendations to the city council:

               a.

               Approve.

               b.

               Approve with conditions.

               c.

               Disapprove.

               (3)

               Make notes on two copies of the final plat as to action taken.

               (d)

               The city council shall, within 30 days after the planning and zoning commission has
               submitted its recommendation, conclude one of the following:

               (1)

               Final plat approved.

               (2)

               Final plat approved with conditions.

               (3)

               Final plat not approved but may be returned for further consideration by the planning
               and zoning commission.

               (4)

               Final plat not approved.

               (e)

               The city secretary shall, within 30 days after city council approval:

               (1)

               Take action on plats as follows:

               a.

               No final plat shall be recorded unless and until all requirements of the subdivision
               regulations have been complied with and until such stipulations as may be set by the
               city council have been met.

               b.

               For plats located within the corporate limits of the city, review the file plat for
               proper signature and approval, and record at county clerk's office.

               c.

               For plats located outside the corporate limits of the city but within its extraterritorial
               jurisdiction, review the final plat for proper signature and approval, and forward
               copies to the county judge for action and approval by the commissioner's court prior
               to recording at county clerk's office.

               (2)

               Retain three copies of plat recorded in the county records for the city files.

               (3)

               Distribute copies as directed.

               (f)

               The subdivider shall:

               (1)

               Direct his engineer to design, stake, and supervise the construction (to be inspected
               by the city) of facilities in accordance with approved plans and specifications and
               these regulations.

               (2)

               Direct his contractor to construct all improvements as identified in the approved
               engineering plans and to provide to the city a one-year maintenance bond in the amount
               of ten percent of the contract price, along with three blue line sets and one sepia
               set of as-built plans, checked and corrected by the engineer.

               (g)

               The zoning administrator shall, upon completion of said improvements and compliance
               with these regulations, receive and cause the project to be considered for acceptance
               by the city council for approval by the city, including the title, use, and maintenance
               of the improvements.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.4, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2001-048, 9-24-2001)"
Sec. 34-37.,Combination preliminary and final plat.,"The subdivider may, at his option, elect to combine the preliminary plat and final
               plat whenever the subdivision:

                  (1)

                  Involves the division of a tract or parcel into no more than two lots;

                  (2)

                  Each parcel so subdivided fronts on an existing street and the proposed subdivision
                  shall not require the extension of an existing street or the extension, modification,
                  or creation of municipal facilities and/or public improvements; and

                  (3)

                  The proposed development will be of the same type of use and of comparable intensity
                  as adjacent existing or planned development.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.5, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-162.,Design standards manual.,"The subdivider shall design and construct all water and sewer systems, streets and
               drainage facilities, and any other facilities required by these regulations which
               are necessary for the proper development of the subdivision, in accordance with this
               section and the city design standards manual. The design standards manual shall be
               kept on file in the office of the city secretary and shall not be codified.

               (Ord. No. 2012-010, § 1, 3-19-2012)"
Sec. 34-163.,Relation to land use.,"All subdivisions shall conform to the comprehensive master plan of the city and to
               all applicable zoning regulations. No subdivision design shall be approved that requires
               a change in zoning or an amendment to the land use plan, as adopted, until a corrected
               zoning and amended land use plan is approved.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.1, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-38.,Administrative approval of certain plats.,"(a)

               Pursuant to V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 212.0065, the city council hereby delegates
               to the director of community development the authority to approve the following plats:

               (1)

               Amending plats described by V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 212.016;

               (2)

               Minor plats or replats involving four or fewer lots fronting on an existing street
               and not requiring the creation of any new street or the extension of municipal facilities;
               or

               (3)

               Replats under V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 212.0145, that do not require the
               creation of any new street or the extension of municipal facilities.

               The director of community development shall sign the plat to indicate that the plat
               has been administratively approved.

               (b)

               The director of community development may, for any reason, elect to present the plat
               for approval to the planning and zoning commission and city council.

               (c)

               The director of community development shall not be authorized to disapprove the plat
               and shall be required to refer any plat which the director refuses to approve to the
               planning and zoning commission and city council within the time period specified in
               V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 212.009.

               (Ord. No. 2010-001, § 3(A), 2-15-2010)"
Sec. 34-39.,Completeness determination.,"(a)

               Requirements for completeness determination:

               (1)

               Every application for approval of a plat or plan for development submittal after June
               19, 2006, shall be subject to a determination of completeness by the zoning administrator.

               (2)

               No application shall be deemed complete and accepted for processing unless it is accompanied
               by all documents required by and prepared in accordance with the requirements of this
               section and other applicable ordinances. For a determination of completeness to be
               issued, an application must include the following:

               a.

               A completed application form signed by the owner or the owner's authorized agent;

               b.

               Every item, study and document required by this section or other applicable ordinances;
               and

               c.

               A nonrefundable application submittal fee, as may be specified by council action by
               a separate resolution.

               (3)

               The zoning administrator or city engineer may from time to time identify additional
               requirements for a complete application that are not contained within but are consistent
               with the application contents and standards set for in this section.

               (4)

               A determination of completeness shall not constitute a determination of compliance
               with the substantive requirements of this section.

               (b)

               Determination of completeness; expiration.

               (1)

               Not later than the tenth business day after the date of application for plat approval
               or a plan for development is submitted, The zoning administrator shall make a written
               determination whether the application constitutes a complete application. This shall
               include a determination that all information and documents required by this section
               or other applicable ordinances have been submitted. A determination that the application
               is incomplete shall be mailed to the applicant within such time period by United States
               certified mail or regular mail at the address listed on the application, or hand delivered
               to the applicant or the applicant's representative. The determination shall specify
               the documents or other information needed to complete the application and shall state
               that the application will expire if the documents or other information is not submitted
               within 45 days after the date the application was submitted.

               (2)

               An application for approval of a plat or plan for development plan filed on or after
               June 19, 2006, shall be deemed complete on the 11th business day after the application
               has been received, if the applicant has not otherwise been notified that the application
               is incomplete. For purposes of this section, the applicant shall be deemed to have
               been notified if the city has mailed or delivered a copy of the determination as provided
               in subsection (b)(1) of this section.

               (3)

               The processing of an application by any city employee prior to the time the application
               is determined to be complete shall not be binding on the city as the official acceptance
               of the application for filing. The incompleteness as an application shall be grounds
               for denial of the application regardless of whether a determination of incompleteness
               was mailed to the applicant.

               (4)

               An application for approval of a plat or plan for development shall be deemed to expire
               on the 45th day after the application is submitted to The zoning administrator for
               processing if the applicant fails to provide documents or other information necessary
               to meet the requirements of this section or other requirements as specified in the
               determination provided to the applicant. Upon expiration, the application will be
               returned to the applicant together with any accompanying documents. Thereafter, a
               new application must be submitted.

               (5)

               No vested rights accrue solely from the filing of an application that has expired
               pursuant to this section, or from the filing of a complete application that is subsequently
               denied.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 4.11, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2006-030, 6-19-2006)"
Secs. 34-40—34-64.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,PLAT FORM AND CONTENT,NULL
DIVISION 8.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (8) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 8, §§ 42-379—42-387, in its entirety.
               Former div. 8 pertained to ""MF—Multifamily Residential District"" and was derived from
               Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 14.1—14.9, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2009-002, §§
               2I(14.5), (14.9), adopted January 19, 2009 and Ord. No. 2011-002, § 4, adopted February
               21, 2011."
Secs. 42-379—42-417.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 11.,CBD—CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT,NULL
Sec. 34-65.,Preliminary plat.,"The preliminary plat shall be drawn on sheets not greater than 24 inches by 36 inches
               and to a scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch, and shall contain the following
               information:

                  (1)

                  Existing features inside. Existing features inside subdivision:

                  a.

                  The existing boundary lines (accurate in scale) of the land to be subdivided. Boundary
                  lines shall be drawn in heavy lines for easy identification.

                  b.

                  The location of existing watercourses, railroads, and other similar drainage and transportation
                  features.

                  c.

                  The outline of wooded areas or the location of important individual trees may be required.

                  d.

                  The location and width of existing streets, alleys, easements, buildings and structures,
                  sewers, water mains, culverts, or other underground structures within or adjacent
                  to the tract.

                  e.

                  Topographical information with contour lines at one-foot intervals, unless otherwise
                  permitted by the planning and zoning commission due to conditions of terrain involved.
                  All elevations shall be referred to a geodetic survey or a city survey.

                  (2)

                  Existing features outside. Existing features outside subdivision:

                  a.

                  The name and property lines of adjoining property owners.

                  b.

                  The name and location of adjacent subdivisions, streets, easements, pipe lines, watercourses,
                  etc. In the case of easements, a written statement as to the easement use shall be
                  included with the plat.

                  c.

                  All lines outside of subdivision boundaries to be dashed lines.

                  (3)

                  New features inside. New features inside of subdivision:

                  a.

                  The proposed name of the subdivision.

                  b.

                  The location, right-of-way width, and names of proposed streets.

                  c.

                  The approximate width and depth of all lots. If the side lines are not parallel, the
                  approximate distance between them at the building line and at the narrowest point
                  should be given.

                  d.

                  The location of building lines, alleys and easements.

                  e.

                  The location and approximate size of sites for schools, churches, parks, including
                  commercial retail, industrial, office, multifamily, educational, medical, and other
                  special land uses.

                  f.

                  The approximate acreage of the property to be subdivided.

                  (4)

                  Key map. A key map showing relation of subdivision to major thoroughfares in all directions
                  to a distance of at least one-half mile.

                  (5)

                  Title, etc. The date, scale, north point and title under which the plat is to be recorded, with
                  the name, address, and phone number of the owner, the name of the licensed land surveyor
                  or registered professional engineer platting the tract.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 5.1, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-66.,Final plat.,"The final plat shall be sized and contain the information, details and documents as
               follows:

                  (1)

                  Sheet size and scale. All final plats shall be drawn in permanent reproducible ink on Mylar or tracing
                  sheets 8½ inches by 11 inches, 8½ inches by 14 inches, 11 inches by 17 inches, or
                  24 inches by 36 inches and to a scale of one inch equals 100 feet. Where more than
                  one sheet is required, an index sheet of maximum size, 24 inches by 36 inches, shall
                  be filed showing the entire subdivision; all sheets shall be of the same size.

                  (2)

                  Measurements. The length and bearing of all straight lines, radii, arc lengths, tangent lengths,
                  and central angles of all curves shall be indicated along the boundary line of the
                  subdivision and along each block. All dimensions along the lines of each lot shall
                  be shown. The curve data pertaining to block or lot boundary may be placed in a curve
                  table at the base of the plat and prepared in tabular form.

                  (3)

                  Existing features inside. Existing features inside subdivision:

                  a.

                  The existing boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings of the land to be
                  subdivided. Boundary lines shall be drawn in heavy lines for easy identification.

                  b.

                  An accurate metes and bounds description of the area included in the subdivision,
                  including reference to section or abstract corners, established subdivisions, primary
                  control points, and total acreage being platted, all shall be placed upon the final
                  plat. Where more than one ownership is involved in the area being subdivided, the
                  limits of each owner's land shall be clearly designated on the final plat.

                  c.

                  The location of existing watercourses and other similar drainage features, floodprone
                  land, railroads, highways, and other transportation features.

                  d.

                  True bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines, official monuments,
                  or subdivision corner, which shall be accurately described on the plat.

                  e.

                  The location and width of existing streets, alleys, easements, rights-of-way, buildings
                  and structures to be retained.

                  f.

                  An accurate location of the subdivision with reference to the deed records of the
                  county which shall include the volume and page of the deed of the property to be subdivided.

                  (4)

                  Existing features outside. Existing features outside subdivision:

                  a.

                  The name and property lines of adjoining subdivisions and of the adjoining property
                  owners, together with the respective plat or deed references.

                  b.

                  The name and location of adjacent streets, alleys, easements, watercourses, etc.

                  c.

                  All lines outside of subdivision boundaries to be dashed lines.

                  (5)

                  Streets, alleys, easements. The lines and names of all proposed streets or other ways or easements to be dedicated
                  to public use, with the following engineering and surveying data:

                  a.

                  For streets and alleys. Complete curve data (delta, length, radius, tangent, point of curve, point of reverse
                  curve, point of tangent) shown on the centerline or on each side of street or in a
                  chart on the plat which lists all such data for each curve; length and bearings of
                  all tangents; dimensions from all angle points and points of curve to an adjacent
                  side lot line.

                  b.

                  For watercourses and easements. Distances to be provided along the side lot lines from the front lot line or the
                  high bank of a stream.

                  Traverse lines are to be provided along the edge of all large watercourses in a convenient
                  location, preferably along a utility easement, if paralleling the drainage easement
                  or stream.

                  (6)

                  Lots and blocks. The lines and numbers of all proposed lots and blocks with complete bearings and
                  dimensions for front, rear and side lot lines and area of each lot shall be shown.
                  (Use block numbers only when previous units of the same subdivision have numbered
                  blocks, otherwise use continuous consecutive lot numbers throughout subdivision).

                  (7)

                  Reservations. The use and property dimensions of all special reservations identified for the project,
                  including sites for schools, churches, and parks. The master plan for public sites,
                  school sites and park sites shall be followed or may be amended to conform to the
                  conditions established by the city council.

                  (8)

                  Monuments and control points.

                  a.

                  The description and location of all permanent survey monuments and control points.

                  b.

                  Suitable primary control points to which all dimension, bearings and similar data
                  shall be referred. Dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot.

                  (9)

                  Key map. A key map showing relation of subdivision to major thoroughfares in all directions
                  to a distance of at least one-half mile.

                  (10)

                  Legend. The final plat shall show a legend including the name of the addition or subdivision,
                  date, scale, and north point; location of subdivision with reference to original land
                  grant or survey; abstract number; name and address of subdivider; name, address and
                  seal of surveyor and/or engineer.

                  (11)

                  Dedications and certificates. Such dedications and certificates as are applicable.

                  a.

                  Dedication deed. Accompanying the final plat shall be a dedication deed or certificate of dedication
                  executed by all persons owning an interest in the property subdivided and platted,
                  and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by the laws of the state for conveyance
                  of real property. Two true copies must be furnished with the original. The wife of
                  each married man executing such dedication deed or certificate of dedication shall
                  join her husband therein, unless satisfactory proof shall be provided showing that
                  the property to be subdivided does not constitute any portion of such party's homestead
                  and positively designates and identifies such party's actual homestead. In the case
                  of lien holders, there shall be executed a subordination agreement whereby all lien
                  holders subordinate their liens to all public streets, alleys, parks, school sites
                  and any drainage or utility easements, rights-of-way, or other public areas shown
                  on the final plat of such subdivision as being set aside for public uses and purposes.
                  The dedication deed or certificate of dedication shall, in addition to the above requirements,
                  contain the following:

                  1.

                  An accurate metes and bounds description of the tract of land subdivided (the description
                  placed on the final plat should be used for this purpose). Also, a description of
                  the limits of each owner's land and the lots, plots, and building sites of the subdivision
                  included within the boundary of each owner's land.

                  2.

                  A statement and express representation that the parties joining in such dedication
                  deed or certificate of dedication are the sole owners of such tract of land.

                  3.

                  An express dedication to the public for public use forever over the streets, alleys,
                  easements, rights-of-way, parks, school sites and other public places shown on the
                  attached plat.

                  4.

                  A positive reference and identification of the final plat of such subdivision by the
                  name of such subdivision, date of the plat, and the surveyor who prepared the plat.

                  b.

                  Surveyor's certificate. The surveyor's certificate, to be placed on the plat is as follows:

                  Know all men by these presents:

                  That I, ___________, do hereby certify that I prepared this plat and the field notes
                  made a part thereof from an actual and accurate survey of the land and that the corner
                  monuments shown thereon were properly placed under my personal supervision, in accordance
                  with the subdivision regulations of the City of Alvarado, Texas.

                                    (Professional Seal and Date)

                                  _____
                                    Name, Title, and Registration No.

                     &nbsp;

                  c.

                  Certificate of approval. The certificate of approval is to be placed on the plat.

                  1.

                  When a plat is approved by the city council, the following certificate shall be placed
                  on the plat:

                  Approved this _____ day of ___________, 20___, by the city council of the City of
                  Alvarado, Texas.

                                  _____
                                    Mayor

                                  _____
                                    City Secretary

                     &nbsp;

                  2.

                  When a plat is administratively approved by the director of community development
                  as provided in section 34-38, the following certificate shall be placed on the plat:

                  Approved this _____ day of ___________, 20___, by the director of community development
                  of the City of Alvarado, Texas, as authorized by section 4.6 of the Subdivision Ordinance
                  (section 34-38 of the city Code) of the City of Alvarado, Texas.

                                  _____
                                    Director of Community Development

                                  _____
                                    City Secretary

                     &nbsp;

                  d.

                  Certificate of recording to be placed on the plat:

                  Plat recorded in Volume _____, Page _____, Slide _____.

                                    Date:
                                     _____

                                  _____
                                    County Clerk, Johnson County, Texas

                                  _____
                                    Deputy, Johnson County, Texas

                     &nbsp;

                  (12)

                  Special restrictions. Where restrictions of use of land, other than those given in these regulations are
                  to be imposed by the subdivider, such restrictions shall be placed on the final plat
                  or on a separate instrument filed with the plat.

                  (13)

                  Tax receipt. Tax receipts and assessment releases showing that all taxes and all assessments have
                  been paid are to be submitted concurrent with the final plat.

                  (14)

                  Subdivision improvements. The developer shall install all survey monuments and markers, street paving, curbs
                  and gutters, alley grading, storm drainage, water and sanitary sewer mains and laterals,
                  fire hydrants, water valves, traffic signs, streetlights, street signs and sidewalks,
                  within and adjacent to the subdivision, or shall provide cash deposit or other guarantee
                  acceptable to the city for the payment of the cost of such installations prior to
                  the final approval by the city council.

                  (15)

                  Park improvements. Provisions for parks and open space shall be made as set forth in section 34-91.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 5.2, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2000-034, 7-10-2000; Ord. No. 2010-001, §§ 3(B), 3(C), 2-15-2010)"
Secs. 34-92—34-125.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2017-008, § 4, adopted June 19, 2017
                  
               , repealed §§ 34-92—34-106, in their entirety. Former §§ 34-92—34-106 pertained to
               ""Definitions,"" ""General requirements,"" ""Dedication of land in lieu of fee,"" ""Character
               and minimum area,"" ""Prior dedication; absence of prior dedication,"" ""Private park
               option-open space,"" ""Consideration of park, recreation and open space master plan/comprehensive
               plan,"" ""Special fund; right to refund,"" ""Criteria for acceptance of park land,"" ""Additional
               requirements, definitions,"" ""Easements for utilities,"" ""Dedication for public use,""
               ""Diversity of ownership,"" ""Partial development of large subdivision,"" ""Comprehensive
               group development,"", respectively; and were derived from Ord. No. 99-029, §§ 6.2—6.16,
               adopted April 26, 1999 and Ord. No. 2004-039, adopted July 12, 2004."
ARTICLE V.,IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR TO ACCEPTANCE,NULL
Sec. 34-126.,Monuments.,"Monuments, as prescribed in this article, shall be placed at all corners as required
               herein.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.1, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-127.,Streets and alleys.,"(a)

               Before approval and acceptance of any final plat, the developer shall prepare and
               submit three copies of the complete engineering plans of streets, alleys, curbs and
               gutters, storm sewers and drainage structures, and water and sanitary sewer improvements
               for the area covered by the final plat. The developer shall have these plans prepared
               by qualified engineer, subject to the approval of the plans by the city. The zoning
               administrator shall review the plans and specifications and, if approved, shall mark
               them ""APPROVED"" and return one set to the developer. If not approved, two sets shall
               be marked, with the objections noted, and returned to the developer for corrections.

               (b)

               After approval of the plat and of the plans and specifications, the developer shall
               cause a contractor to install the facilities in accordance with the approved plans
               and specifications and the regulations of this article. The developer shall cause
               the engineer to design, stake, and supervise the construction of such improvements,
               and shall cause the contractor to construct the said improvements in accordance with
               these regulations.

               (c)

               The city will inspect the installation of the improvements. After the improvements
               have been completed and have been found to be installed in accordance with the approved
               plans and specifications, upon receipt by the city of a one-year maintenance bond
               in the amount of ten percent of the contract price from each separate contractor,
               along with three sets of as-built plans and one set of as-built sepias, and upon receipt
               of a letter of the contractor's compliance with these regulations, then the zoning
               administrator shall receive and approve for the city the title, use, and maintenance
               of the improvements.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.2, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-128.,Storm drainage.,"(a)

               An adequate storm sewer system consisting of inlets, pipes, and other underground
               drainage structures with approved outlets shall be constructed where drainage of stormwater
               and the prevention of erosion cannot be accomplished satisfactorily by surface drainage
               facilities. Areas subject to flood conditions, as established by the city, will not
               be considered for development until adequate drainage has been provided.

               (b)

               Areas subject to flood conditions as established by the federal insurance administrator
               will not be considered for development until both adequate drainage and elevation
               of lots, streets, and alleys have been accomplished to meet the requirements of the
               floodplain map.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.3, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-129.,Water supply.,"All subdivisions shall be provided with an approved water system designed and constructed
               in accordance with the comprehensive plan and standard specifications of the city.
               In the corporate limits of the city, all subdivisions will be connected with the city
               water supply distribution system or an approved private system.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.4, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-130.,Sewer improvements.,"(a)

               All subdivisions shall be provided with an approved sewage disposal system and shall
               be connected to the city sanitary sewer system, except as provided in subsection (c)
               of this section.

               (b)

               The developer shall furnish and install the complete sewer system, including the mains,
               manholes, cleanouts, Y-branches, and service laterals for all lots, lift stations,
               and appurtenances. The sewage system shall be designed and constructed in accordance
               with the master plan and standard specifications of the city.

               (c)

               In locations where sanitary sewers are not available and where the city council concludes
               that installation of sanitary sewers is not feasible, on-site septic systems of approved
               type may be installed in conformity with the rules, regulations, and ordinances of
               the city, county, and state pertaining to public health. In case of conflict between
               city, county, and state rules, regulations, and ordinances, the most stringent of
               said rules, regulations, and ordinances shall prevail. The city council shall grant
               approval for on-site septic system usage only in those conditions and circumstances
               in which very low density development can be accommodated or other exceptional circumstances
               exist. In no case shall on-site septic systems be installed without express approval
               and inspection by the city.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 7.5, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-166.,Storm drainage.,"(a)

               Storm drainage facilities required. Underground storm drainage facilities shall be provided where the run-off stormwater
               and the prevention of erosion can be accomplished satisfactorily by surface drainage.
               All drainage facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the comprehensive
               plan and city requirements.

               (b)

               Subdivider to provide storm drainage facilities. The subdivider shall bear all costs of storm sewer and drainage facilities required
               to serve subdivided property. The city will not accept any storm sewer or drainage
               facility until inspected and approved by the public works director for compliance
               with the regulations. No such facility will be approved to serve illegally subdivided
               property. If the city requires large storm sewer or drainage facilities than are necessary
               to serve the subdivision in order to provide for future development, the city will
               consider participation in such oversize contract for the cost of such to be recovered
               from subdividers of property that will connect to such lines.

               (c)

               Adequate facilities required. An adequate storm sewer system consisting of inlets, pipes, and other underground
               structures with approved outlets and channels shall be constructed where runoff or
               stormwater and the prevention of erosion cannot be accommodated satisfactorily by
               surface drainage facilities. Areas subject to flood conditions will not be considered
               for development until adequate drainage has been provided.

               (d)

               Construction to conform to design standards. The criteria for use in designing storm sewers, culverts, bridges, drainage channels,
               and any other drainage facilities shall conform to the latest Storm Drainage Criteria
               and Design Manual of the City of Fort Worth. A Corps of Engineers permit shall be
               obtained by the subdivider for proposed earthen channels and altering existing channels
               or creeks. Earthen channel side slopes shall be 4:1 or flatter.

               (e)

               Specifications for materials and workmanship. The specifications for materials and workmanship shall conform to the Standard Specifications
               for Public Works Construction, published by the North Central Texas Council of Governments.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.4, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-167.,Lots.,"(a)

               Lot size. On the basis of the land use district (single-family, residential, duplex, multifamily,
               commercial, retail, office, mobile home, industrial, etc.) in which they lie and the
               use to which they are to be put, all lots or tract sizes must conform to the zoning
               regulations of chapter 42, including minimum area, width and depth.

               (b)

               Lot width definition. The lot width is the minimum distance between the side lot lines of a building lot
               measured along a straight line at the rear of the required front yard and parallel
               to the street line or a line tangent thereto, unless otherwise defined.

               (c)

               Corner lots. Corner lots with a width of less than 65 feet are to be at least five feet wider
               than average of interior lots in the block. Corner lots with a width of less than
               75 feet adjacent to a major thoroughfare are to be at least 15 feet wider than the
               average of interior lots in the block.

               (d)

               Key lots. Where corner lots are key lots, the corner lot shall have a front building line on
               both streets, unless said key lot is separated from other lots by a dedicated street
               or alley.

               (e)

               Lot depth. No lot shall be platted less than 100 feet in depth. In cases where an
               irregularly shaped tract is platted into lots and remnant piece of property is of
               sufficient area to plat one or more lots, the council may waive the depth requirement
               to prevent a hardship on the developer.

               (f)

               Lots on major streets. Lots facing or backing on major streets shall be at least ten feet deeper than average
               lots facing on adjacent minor streets.

               (g)

               lots on drainage easements. Minimum usable lot depths for lots backing on natural drainage easements shall be
               not less than 100 feet measured between front lot line and drainage easement.

               (h)

               Lot shape. Lots should be rectangular insofar as practicable. Sharp angles between lot lines
               should be avoided. The ratio of depth to width should not ordinarily exceed 2½ times.
               Irregular shaped lots shall have sufficient width at the building line to meet frontage
               requirements for the appropriate zoning district.

               (i)

               Lot lines. Side lot lines should be perpendicular or radial to street frontage.

               (j)

               Lot facing.

               (1)

               Street frontage. Each lot shall be provided with adequate access to an existing or proposed public
               street by frontage on such street not to be less than 40 feet.

               (2)

               Double front. Double frontage lots are prohibited except when backing on major thoroughfares. Where
               lots have double frontage, a front building line shall be established for each street.

               (3)

               Front facing. Wherever feasible, each lot should face the front of a similar lot across the street.
               In general, an arrangement placing adjacent lots at right angles to each other should
               be avoided.

               (k)

               Lot numbering. All lots are to be numbered consecutively within each block. Lot numbering may be
               cumulative throughout the subdivision if the numbering continues from block to block
               in a uniform manner that has been approved on an overall preliminary plat.

               (l)

               Driveway restrictions. Rear and side driveway access to major thoroughfares shall be prohibited.

               (m)

               Replatting.

               (1)

               Any person who wishes to revise a subdivision plat which has been previously filed
               for record must make an application of the proposed revised plat to the city council.
               The replat of the subdivision shall meet all the requirements for a subdivision that
               may be pertinent. However, if the subdivision as replatted does not require any appreciable
               alteration or improvement of utility installations, streets, alleys, etc., then no
               engineering plans will be required.

               (2)

               In the event the proposed replat involves property which has been previously developed
               or zoned as single-family or duplex residential use, then special requirements are
               as follows:

               a.

               After an application is filed for a replat affecting single-family and duplex property,
               the city secretary shall cause a notice of the application to be published in the
               official newspaper of the city at least 15 days before the date of the city council
               meeting at which it is to be considered. Such notice must include a statement of the
               time and place at which the city council will meet to consider the replat and to hear
               protests to the revision at a public hearing. Additionally, written notice must be
               sent to all owners of property located within 200 feet of the property upon which
               the replat is requested. Such notice may be served by depositing the notice, properly
               addressed and postage paid, at the local post office.

               b.

               If 20 percent or more of the property owners to whom notice has been required to be
               given above file a written protest of the replatting before or at the public hearing,
               then the affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of the city councilmembers is
               required to approve the replat.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.5, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2011-029, § 1, 8-15-2011)"
Secs. 42-532—42-536.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed §§ 42-532—42-536. Former §§ 42-532—42-536 pertained to ""General purpose
               and description""; ""Permitted uses""; ""Permitted specific uses""; ""Height and area regulations"";
               ""Parking regulations"", respectively, and were derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 18.1—18.5,
               adopted February 17, 2004."
Sec. 34-168.,Blocks.,"(a)

               Block length. Blocks shall not be more than 1,320 feet in length.

               (b)

               Block width. Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a block width no less
               than 220 feet, except when prevented by the size of the property or the need to back-up
               to a major thoroughfare. Where no existing subdivision controls, the block width of
               depth shall be platted to give lots with a depth-to-width ratio of generally not more
               than 2.5:1.

               (c)

               Crosswalks. Crosswalk easements of 15 feet in width across blocks exceeding 800 feet in length
               shall be dedicated where deemed necessary by the city council.

               (d)

               Block numbering. Blocks are to be numbered consecutively within the overall plat and/or sections of
               an overall plat as recorded only when previous units of subdivision have numbered
               blocks, otherwise blocks shall not be numbered.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.6, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-169.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               Ord. No. 2011-029, § 2, adopted Aug. 15, 2011, repealed § 34-169 which pertained to
               building lines and derived from Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.7, adopted April 26, 1999."
Sec. 34-170.,Easements.,"(a)

               Size. The size of easements where alleys are not provided shall not be less than ten feet
               on each side of rear lot lines. Easements along side lot lines shall be not less than
               ten feet in width. However, while deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission
               and/or the city council, such easements may be required to be 20 feet in width.

               (b)

               Use. Where necessary, easements shall be retained for poles, wires, conduits, storm sewers,
               sanitary sewers, water lines, open drains, gas lines or other utilities. Such easements
               may be required across parts of lots (including side lines) other than as described
               above if the city council determines that same is needed. Any easements so established
               shall be maintained by the property owner. All easements may be included in the computation
               of lot sizes, with the exception of drainage easements, which will be in addition
               to the specified lot size.

               (c)

               Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel or street,
               there shall be provided a storm easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially
               with such course and of such additional width as may be designated by The zoning administrator
               that will be reasonably adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may
               be required in connection with these easements. The drainage shall be designed to
               eliminate erosion of adjoining property and to facilitate routine maintenance.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.8, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-172.,Restrictions for permit.,"No building permit nor any water, sewer, plumbing, or electrical permit shall be issued
               by the city to the owners or any other person with respect to any property in any
               subdivision covered by this article until:

                  (1)

                  Such time as the developer and/or owner has complied with the requirements of this
                  article and the approved final plat regarding improvements with respect to the block
                  facing the street and/or streets on which the property abuts, including the installation
                  of streets with proper base and paving, curbs and sewers and alleys;

                  (2)

                  An escrow deposit has been made with the city secretary, such deposit being sufficient
                  to pay for the cost of such improvements and being accompanied by an agreement signed
                  by the developer and/or owner authorizing the city to make such improvements at prevailing
                  private commercial rates, or to have the same made by a private contractor and pay
                  for the same from the escrow deposit. Cost of such improvements is to be determined
                  by The zoning administrator and computed on a private commercial rate basis. Should
                  the developer and/or owner fail or refuse to install the required improvements within
                  the time stated in such written agreement, the city shall in no case be obligated
                  to make such improvements itself, except that such deposit may be used by the owner
                  and/or developer as a progress payment as the work progresses by making certified
                  requisition to the city secretary when supported by evidence of work done; or

                  (3)

                  The developer and/or owner files a corporate surety bond with the city secretary in
                  a sum equal to the cost of such improvements for the designated area, guaranteeing
                  the installation thereof with the time stated in the bond, which time shall be fixed
                  by the zoning administrator.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.10, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-173.,Reservations.,"(a)

               Permitted purposes. No land contained in the proposed subdivision shall be reserved for any use other
               than a use permitted by the zoning regulations of chapter 42 for the district in which the land to be reserved is located.

               (b)

               Designation on plat. The specific use for which each piece of land is to be reserved must be shown by
               appropriate label or description on the subdivision plat. Provision for future abandonment
               of a reservation as may be appropriate must likewise be shown on said plat.

               (c)

               Parks and playgrounds. The location and size of parks and playgrounds shall be in accordance with the city's
               park sites plan.

               (d)

               Schools. The location and size of school sites shall be in accordance with the city's school
               sites plan, if any, and with the requirements of the school district.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.11, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-174.,Variances.,"When a subdivider can show that a provision of these regulations would cause unnecessary
               hardship if strictly adhered to and where, because of some condition peculiar to the
               site, in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission and/or the city council
               a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such provisions, the city
               council may authorize a variance. The council shall consider the nature of the proposed
               usage of land involved, the existing usage of land in the vicinity, the number of
               persons who will reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect
               of such variance on traffic conditions and public health, safety, convenience, and
               welfare of individuals in the vicinity. No variances will be granted unless the council
               finds the following:

                  (1)

                  There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land involved such that
                  the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would deprive the applicant
                  of the reasonable use of his land.

                  (2)

                  The variances are necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property
                  right of the applicant and the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to
                  the public health, safety, or welfare of individuals, or injurious to other properties
                  in the area.

                  (3)

                  The granting of the variance will not have the effect of preventing the orderly subdivision
                  of other lands in the area in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Pecuniary
                  hardship to the subdivider, standing alone, shall not be deemed to constitute undue
                  hardship.

               Any variance thus authorized is required to be entered in writing into the minutes
               of the commission and/or the city council and the reason which justified the departure
               to be set forth, and such variance must be authorized by affirmative vote of not less
               than two-thirds of the entire members of the city council.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.12, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-175.,Inspection of construction.,"(a)

               The city shall be given opportunity to inspect all phases of the construction of improvements
               for subdivisions. The subdivider, or his contractor, shall maintain daily contact
               with the city engineer, or his representative, during construction of improvements.

               (b)

               No sanitary sewer, water, or storm sewer pipe shall be covered without approval of
               the city engineer or his representative. No concrete shall be poured for streets,
               structures, or curbs and gutters without said approval. No flexible base material
               shall be placed on the street subgrade, or asphaltic surface applied to the flexible
               base of a street without said approval.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8.14, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-176.,Driveway spacing and common access easements.,"(a)

               Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to promote the following public purposes:

               (1)

               Providing for safe and efficient vehicular access to or from commercial, industrial
               and multi-family property and public or private streets while maintaining vehicular
               access to and from the street system to all properties;

               (2)

               Reduction of unnecessary traffic congestion and vehicular accidents caused by the
               number of conflicting turning movements;

               (3)

               Preservation of the capacity of public streets during peak traffic volumes by minimizing
               disruption of smooth traffic flow caused by frequent vehicular turning maneuvers and
               resulting slowing of traffic;

               (4)

               Promotion of orderly, efficient and attractive development of commercial, industrial
               and multi-family properties and visibility of commercial businesses, thereby resulting
               in the promotion of business, tax revenue, and quality of life of residents.

               It is the intent to achieve these purposes by providing for the optimal spacing of
               driveways, by prohibiting the indiscriminate location and spacing of driveway access
               within close proximity to other existing or planned driveway access and street intersections,
               and requiring the creation of cross-access easements to minimize the number and insure
               safe location of driveway accesses.

               (b)

               Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
               provided in this subsection. If not defined in this subsection, words and terms shall
               have the meanings ascribed thereto in the subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance,
               thoroughfare plan, or other ordinances of the city. Words and terms defined in multiple
               ordinances shall be read in harmony unless there exists an irreconcilable conflict
               in which case the definition contained in this subsection shall control.

               Applicant means any owner, authorized agent, lessee, contractor or developer who desires to
               construct, reconstruct, relocate or in any way alter the design of a driveway.

               Arterial means any existing or future roadway classified as an arterial in the thoroughfare
               plan.

               Collector means any existing or future roadway classified as a collector in the thoroughfare
               plan.

               Common access easement means an easement allowing public and private vehicular and pedestrian access onto,
               across, through and from a property to an adjacent property and/or to an adjacent
               public or private street for the joint use of each affected property, in order to
               facilitate the public purposes of this section and comply with the requirements of
               this section. Common access easements shall be created by dedication on the final
               plat of the subject properties, or by separate instrument recorded with the county
               clerk with a copy filed with the city.

               Director means the director of public works or that person's designee.

               Driveway means pavement or improved surface on a property designed and intended for vehicular
               traffic onto, across, through and from a property, including but not limited to the
               driveway approach. The driveway is the area located both within public right-of-way
               and extending onto a property when necessary to ensure safe entry and exit from the
               driveway onto and from the street and/or to provide vehicular access to and from another
               property.

               Driveway approach means that portion of the driveway that provides planned vehicular access connection
               between a property and a public or private street. The driveway approach is primarily
               located within public right-of-way but may be considered to extend onto a property
               when necessary to ensure safe entry and exit from the property onto and from the street.

               Driveway, commercial means a driveway providing vehicular access onto, across, through and from commercial
               property, excluding service driveways. The principle use of commercial driveways will
               be automobile traffic with only incidental use by truck traffic.

               Driveway, common means a driveway constructed to provide access onto, across, through and from two
               or more properties.

               Driveway, industrial means a driveway providing vehicular access onto, across, through and from industrial
               property, excluding service driveways. The principle use of commercial driveways will
               be automobile traffic to and from administrative or employee parking lots, with only
               incidental use by truck traffic.

               Driveway, multi-family means a driveway which provides access to multi-family property.

               Driveway, residential means a driveway which provides access to residential property.

               Driveway, service means a driveway whose principle use is to provide ingress and egress for truck movements
               to and from loading docks located on commercial or industrial property. For the purposes
               of this section, a truck is any vehicle or combination of vehicles (e.g. tractor-trailer)
               with a gross vehicle weight of 26,001 pounds or greater.

               Driveway, temporary means a driveway permitted by the city in accordance with this section for a limited
               specified time or until an adjacent property develops or until a common access easement
               can be created on an adjacent property, at which time the temporary driveway is to
               be removed and the street restored.

               Frontage road means driving lanes within state right-of-way that parallel the principal highway
               or freeway driving lanes and which provide direct access to properties adjacent to
               such right-of-way.

               Local street means any future or existing roadway designed to provide direct access to residential
               property and providing internal traffic circulation within residential neighborhoods.

               Property means a single tract or individually-platted lot of real property.

               Property, commercial means property which is either zoned or used, wholly or partially for offices, the
               wholesale or retail sale of goods and services, or for community services such as
               parks, schools, places of worship and governmental facilities.

               Property, industrial means property which is either zoned or used, wholly or partially for industrial
               purposes, and property other than commercial property, multi-family property or residential
               property, as defined in this section.

               Property, multi-family means property which is either zoned or used for private residential use, and containing
               four or more attached dwelling units.

               Property, residential means property which is either zoned or used for a single-family residence, a duplex
               or a multi-family building containing three or fewer dwelling units.

               (c)

               Permit required.

               (1)

               No person shall construct, reconstruct, relocate or in any way alter the design or
               operation of any commercial, industrial, multi-family or service driveway without
               a driveway approach permit issued by the city. In no event shall a driveway be allowed
               or permitted if it is determined by the director to be detrimental to the public health,
               safety and welfare. No permits for other building construction or site work, including
               grading and paving, shall be issued for commercial, industrial, multi-family, or service
               driveways until a site plan meeting the requirements of this section has been approved
               by the director and an appropriate permit issued.

               (2)

               Driveway permits shall be issued only in compliance with this section and the other
               ordinances of the city, and may include terms and conditions authorized by this section.

               (d)

               Common access easements.

               (1)

               Any commercial, industrial or multi-family property with sufficient frontage to safely
               meet the design requirements of subsection (f) may be permitted their own driveway(s).
               Common access easements may be required between adjacent properties if any such property
               does not meet the design requirements of subsection (f).

               (2)

               If an applicant is required to use one or more common driveways, the applicant shall
               be responsible for obtaining common access easements on and over adjacent properties
               as necessary. The city may, but shall not be required to, assist in the acquisition
               of off-site common access easements if the applicant is unable to acquire them. With
               a request for assistance, the applicant shall provide the city with documentation
               of the applicant's efforts, including evidence of a reasonable offer made to the owner
               of the adjacent property. Upon such a written request for assistance, the city may
               attempt to acquire the needed common access easement through negotiations.

               (3)

               If the negotiations are unsuccessful, the applicant may submit a request to the city
               council for consideration of acquisition of the required common access easement through
               condemnation, or, if the adjacent property has not yet developed, the applicant may
               apply for consideration of a temporary driveway as provided in this subsection.

               (4)

               If the applicant chooses to pursue an off-site common access easement, including through
               condemnation by the city, the total cost of the acquisition and the cost of the common
               access easement shall be paid by the applicant.

               (5)

               If the applicant chooses to pursue a temporary driveway, the applicant shall submit
               an application explaining the efforts made to obtain the required common access easement
               and any reasonable alternatives, and a detailed site plan and specifications for the
               proposed temporary driveway. The applicant shall be responsible for the cost of installation,
               maintenance and removal of the temporary driveway, and shall provide financial security
               to remove the temporary driveway and replace or repair the street as needed upon development
               of the adjacent property and the creation of the required common access easement.
               Approval of a temporary driveway and the terms of such approval shall be determined
               by the director applying the goals and purposes of this section.

               (6)

               If a required common access easement cannot be acquired using the methods described
               herein, and if the city elects not to acquire the common access easement through condemnation,
               the applicant shall present alternate driveway locations and designs in conformance
               with this section and other ordinances of the city.

               (7)

               The use of a common or shared driveway approach shall be permitted provided that such
               use purpose is expressly allowed and reflected by dedication of a joint-use private
               access easement on the final plat of each affected property, or be by separate instrument
               recorded with the county with a copy forwarded to the city.

               (8)

               A common access easement shall encompass the entire width of the planned driveway
               plus an additional width of one foot on both sides of the driveway. At a minimum,
               the common access easement must be 26 feet wide and must be located no closer than
               ten feet to the right-of-way, and must extend to the street at all allowed driveway
               approach locations.

               (e)

               Application to existing driveways. Upon application for building permit or certificate of occupancy, existing driveways
               that are not in conformance with this section shall be brought into compliance at
               the expense of the applicant as a condition of the building permit or certificate
               of occupancy if one of the following conditions exists:

               (1)

               The director determines that existing use of the driveway is projected to increase
               in actual or proposed daily design hour volume by 20 percent or more.

               (2)

               The director determines that the change in the use of the property or modifications
               to the property impacts the flow of vehicles entering or exiting the property in a
               manner which is anticipated to disrupt normal traffic flow in the public street, thereby
               creating a hazard. Changes in the property which could require conformance to this
               section may include, but is not necessarily limited to, change in type of business,
               expansion in an existing business, subdivision which creates new parcels, or physical
               modifications to the site other than advertising, landscaping, general maintenance,
               aesthetics, or other changes that do not affect internal or external traffic flow
               or safety.

               (3)

               The buildings on the property are projected to increase in size by 20 percent or more.

               (f)

               Design criteria and standards. The following design criteria and standards shall be followed in the design and construction
               of driveways within the city. Distances between driveways and streets shall be measured
               from the centerline of the driveway and from the closest point of the right-of-way
               at the street intersection. Distances between driveways and other driveways shall
               be measured centerline to centerline.

               (1)

               Driveways on Interstate 35 frontage roads, Interstate 35 Business, and U.S. Highway
               67, and any other state or federal highways shall be designed in accordance with applicable
               federal and Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) access control guidelines.

               (2)

               Regardless of the type of street, full access driveways shall not be located closer
               than 250 feet of an intersection of Interstate 35 right-of-way, Interstate 35 Business
               right-of-way, or U.S. Highway 67 right-of-way. Driveways to be constructed within
               250 feet of an intersection of Interstate 35 right-of-way, Interstate 35 Business
               right-of-way, or U.S. Highway 67 right-of-way shall be right-in/right-out only, but
               in no event shall such driveway be located closer than 150 feet from such intersection.

               (3)

               Commercial, industrial, service and multi-family driveways on arterials shall not
               be constructed closer than 250 feet from any street intersection and not closer than
               250 feet from any other existing commercial, industrial, multi-family or service driveway.

               (4)

               Commercial, industrial, multi-family and service driveways shall not be permitted
               on collector or local streets unless the tract or lot has no other street access.
               In the event there is no other street access, commercial, industrial, multi-family
               and service driveways shall be permitted on collector or local streets, but commercial,
               industrial, multi-family and service driveways on collector streets shall not be constructed
               closer than 150 feet from any street intersection and not closer than 150 feet from
               any other existing commercial, industrial, multi-family or service driveway, and commercial,
               industrial, multi-family and service driveways on local streets shall not be constructed
               closer than 150 feet from any street intersection and not closer than 100 feet from
               any other existing commercial, industrial, multi-family or service driveway.

               (g)

               Modifications, variances and appeals.

               (1)

               Modifications may be granted by the director from the design criteria and standards
               set forth in this section under unique circumstances whenever needed to recognize
               unique extenuating circumstances or preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
               public, provided the modifications provide the same degree of protection, and provided
               that the modifications are in conformity with the intent and purpose of this section.
               The director may defer any request by an applicant to the city council for final determination.
               In considering a request for modification, the director may require a traffic impact
               analysis be prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer in the state
               that certifies the existing traffic conditions and determines the projected traffic
               to be generated by a proposed development to assist the director in the director's
               analysis.

               (2)

               Any applicant who desires a variance or elimination of the requirements herein, or
               who desires to appeal a decision of the director regarding modifications to this section
               shall file a written appeal to the director who shall place the request on the agenda
               for consideration by the city council. The city council shall have the authority to
               grant a variance from the requirements of this section. In granting any variance,
               the criteria to be applied by the city council is whether all of the following apply:

               a.

               A literal enforcement of the regulations herein will create an unnecessary and unreasonable
               hardship on the applicant;

               b.

               The situation causing unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty is unique to the
               affected property;

               c.

               The situation causing unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty is not self-imposed
               by the applicant's own actions and decisions;

               d.

               The variance will not injure and will be wholly compatible with the use and permitted
               development of adjacent properties; and

               e.

               The granting of the variance will be in harmony with the spirit and purpose of this
               section.

               The decision of the city council shall be final.

               (h)

               Enforcement and violations. Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of the
               provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
               shall be fined not to exceed $500.00 for each incident. Each day that a violation
               exists shall constitute a separate offense.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-010, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 34-177—34-205.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 34-207.,Adequate public facilities.,"(a)

               Land proposed to be subdivided must be served adequately by essential public facilities
               and services, including water and wastewater facilities, roadway and pedestrian facilities,
               drainage facilities and park facilities. An application for a plat or development
               may be denied unless adequate public facilities necessary to support and serve the
               development exist or provision has been made for the facilities, whether the facilities
               are to be located within the property being platted or off site.

               (b)

               It is necessary and desirable to provide for dedication of rights-of-way and easements
               for public works improvements to support new development at the earliest stage of
               the development process.

               (c)

               The city desires to assure both that impacts of new development are mitigated through
               contributions of rights-of-way, easements and construction of capital improvements,
               and that a new development be required to contribute not more than its proportionate
               share of such costs.

               (d)

               Proposed public works improvements serving new development shall conform to and be
               properly related to the public facilities elements of the city's adopted master plan,
               other adopted master plans for public facilities and services, and applicable capital
               improvements plans, and shall meet the service levels specified in such plans.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.2, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-211.,Timing of dedication and construction.,"(a)

               The city shall require an initial demonstration that a proposed subdivision shall
               be adequately served by public facilities and services at the time for approval of
               the first development application that portrays a specific plan of development, including
               but not limited to a petition for establishing a planned development zoning district,
               or other overlay zoning district; or a developer's agreement; or an application for
               a preliminary or final plat.

               (b)

               The obligation to dedicate rights-of-way for or to construct one or more public works
               improvements to serve a new subdivision may be deferred until approval of a subsequent
               phase of the subdivision, at the sole discretion of the city engineer, upon written
               request of the property owner, or at the city's own initiative. As a condition of
               deferring the obligation, the city may require that the subdivider include provisions
               in the developer's agreement, specifying the time for dedication of rights-of-way
               for or construction of public works improvements serving the subdivision.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.6, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-208.,Minimum standards.,"(a)

               The standards established in this article for dedication and construction of public
               works improvements and infrastructure are based upon engineering studies and historical
               usages and demands by different categories of development. These regulations identify
               certain minimum requirements and sizes for utilities, roadways, parks and other facilities
               that the city council has determined to be necessary in order to provide the minimum
               level of service necessary to protect or promote the public health, safety, and welfare
               and to ensure the quality of life currently enjoyed by the citizens of the city. It
               is the intent of these regulations that no development occur until and unless these
               minimum levels of service are met. Therefore, each subdivision in the city shall be
               required to dedicate, construct and/or upgrade required facilities and infrastructure
               to a capacity that meets these minimum levels.

               (b)

               For each category of public infrastructure, a minimum standard of infrastructure,
               and in some cases, service level, has been developed based upon historic studies and
               construction projects of the city and other cities. These minimum standards take into
               consideration the soil conditions and topographic configuration of the city, the use
               and impact analyses of the North Central Texas Council of Governments in developing
               standard specifications for public works installation, and other historical use and
               performance experiences of the city that reflect the minimum level of facilities and
               services that must be built to meet the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
               of the city.

               (c)

               In order to maintain prescribed levels of public facilities and services for the health,
               safety and general welfare of its citizens, the city may require the dedication of
               easements and rights-of-way for or construction of on-site or off-site public works
               improvements for water, wastewater, road, drainage or park facilities to serve a proposed
               subdivision, or require the payment of fees in lieu thereof. If adequate levels of
               public facilities and services cannot be provided concurrent with the schedule of
               development proposed, the city may deny the subdivision until the public facilities
               and services can be provided, or require that the development be phased so that the
               availability and delivery of facilities and services coincides with the demands for
               the facilities created by the development.

               (d)

               Whenever the city council determines that levels of service in excess of these minimum
               standards are necessary in order to promote the orderly development of the city, the
               owner shall qualify for reimbursement for any costs in excess of the minimum levels
               of service through city participation, to the extent funds are available by a pro
               rata reimbursement policy or other means adopted by the city.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.3, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-209.,Adequacy of specific facilities.,"(a)

               All lots to be platted shall be connected to a public water system which has capacity
               to provide water for domestic use and emergency purposes, including adequate fire
               protection.

               (b)

               All lots to be platted shall be served by an approved means of wastewater collection
               and treatment. The city engineer shall be responsible for determining the approved
               means of wastewater collection and treatment. The city may require the phasing of
               development and/or improvements in order to maintain adequate wastewater capacity.

               (c)

               Proposed roads shall provide a safe, convenient and functional system for vehicular,
               bicycle and pedestrian circulation and shall be properly related to the applicable
               thoroughfare plan and any amendments thereto, and shall be appropriate for the particular
               traffic characteristics of each proposed subdivision or development. New subdivisions
               shall be supported by a thoroughfare network having adequate capacity, and safe and
               efficient traffic circulation. Each development shall have adequate access to the
               thoroughfare network.

               (d)

               Drainage improvements serving new development shall be designed to prevent overloading
               the capacity of the downstream drainage system. The city may require the phasing of
               development, the use of control methods such as retention or detention, the construction
               of off-site drainage improvements, or drainage impact fees in order to mitigate the
               impacts of the proposed subdivision.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.4, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-210.,Improvement of adjacent and abutting existing streets and utilities.,"In the case of existing adjacent or abutting roads, the city may require that the
               entire right-of-way be dedicated and/or improved to the city's design standards, based
               upon factors including the impact of the proposed subdivision on the road, safety
               to the traveling public, conditions and life expectancy of the road, the impact of
               the proposed subdivision on other roads, the timing of this development in relation
               to need for improving the road, the impact of the traffic on the road and city's roadway
               system as a whole.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.5, 4-26-1999)"
DIVISION 10.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (10) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 10, §§ 42-445—42-450, in its entirety.
               Former div. 10 pertained to ""C-2—General Commercial District"" and was derived from
               Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 16.1—16.6, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2K(16.6),
               adopted January 19, 2009 and Ord. No. 2011-002, § 6, adopted February 21, 2011."
Secs. 42-445—42-468.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 34-212.,Proportionality determination.,"(a)

               Prior to a decision by the planning and zoning commission on a preliminary plat application,
               or if no preliminary plat application is required, on a final plat application, or
               any other application for which an exaction requirement is approved as a condition
               of approval, the city engineer shall prepare a written statement affirming that each
               exaction requirement to be imposed as a condition of plat approval or permit approval
               is roughly proportionate to the demand created by the subdivision or development on
               the applicable public facilities system of the city, taking into consideration the
               nature and extent of the development proposed. In making this determination, the city
               engineer may consider:

               (1)

               Categorical findings of the North Central Texas Council of Governments in developing
               standard specifications for public infrastructure improvements;

               (2)

               The proposed and potential use of the land;

               (3)

               The timing and sequence of development in relation to availability of adequate levels
               of public facilities systems;

               (4)

               Impact fee studies, traffic impact studies, drainage studies or other studies that
               measure the demand for services created by developments and the impact on the city's
               public facilities system;

               (5)

               The function of the public infrastructure improvements in serving the proposed subdivision
               or development;

               (6)

               The degree to which public infrastructure improvements necessary to serve the proposed
               subdivision are supplied by other developments;

               (7)

               The anticipated participation by the city in the costs of necessary public infrastructure
               improvements;

               (8)

               The degree to which acceptable private infrastructure improvements to be constructed
               and maintained by the applicant will offset the need for public infrastructure improvements;

               (9)

               Any reimbursements for the costs of public infrastructure improvements for which the
               proposed subdivision is eligible; and/or

               (10)

               Any other information relating to the impacts created by the proposed subdivision
               or development on the city's public facilities systems.

               (b)

               Based upon the proportionality determination, the city engineer shall affirm that
               the exaction requirements of this chapter, or other ordinance requiring the permit,
               as applied to the proposed subdivision or development, do not impose costs on the
               applicant for public infrastructure improvements that exceed those roughly proportionate
               to the impact of the proposed subdivision or development.

               (c)

               The city engineer may require that the applicant, at its expense, submit any information
               or studies that may assist in making the proportionality determination.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.7, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-213.,Determination.,"(a)

               The planning and zoning commission and city council shall consider the city engineer's
               report concerning the proportionality of the exaction requirements in making a decision
               on a plat application. The commission and the city council may consider the city engineer's
               report in granting a variance to the requirements of this chapter.

               (b)

               The city official responsible for issuing a permit for which an exaction requirement
               is imposed as a condition of approval shall consider the city engineer's report concerning
               the proportionality of the exaction requirements in making its decision as to whether
               to grant the permit.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.8, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-214.,Appeal.,"(a)

               An applicant for a preliminary or final plat or for a permit which imposes an exaction
               requirement as a condition of approval may file an appeal to contest any exaction
               requirement, other than impact fees, imposed as a condition of approval or in which
               the failure to comply is grounds for denying the plat application pursuant to this
               chapter. The provisions of this article apply to any city permit.

               (b)

               The purpose of a proportionality appeal is to assure that an exaction requirement
               imposed on a proposed plat or development as a condition of approval does not result
               in a disproportionate cost burden on the applicant, taking into consideration the
               nature and extent of the demands created by the proposed subdivision or development
               on the city's public facilities systems.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.9, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-215.,Appeals procedure.,"(a)

               An applicant for a preliminary or final plat or an applicant seeking approval for
               any other permit or zoning for which an exaction requirement is imposed shall file
               a written appeal with the city secretary within ten days of the date the planning
               and zoning commission or the city official responsible for issuing the permit takes
               action applying the exaction requirement. This may include denial of the permit or
               plat. The applicant shall submit 15 copies of the appeal.

               (b)

               A separate appeal form shall be submitted for each exaction requirement for which
               relief is sought. The city secretary shall forward the appeal to the city council
               for consideration.

               (c)

               The applicant may request postponement of consideration of the applicant's plat application
               by the city council pending preparation of the study required by subsection (f) of
               this section, in which case the applicant shall also waive the statutory period for
               acting upon a plat for the time necessary for the city council to decide the appeal.

               (d)

               No developer's agreement may be executed by the city until the time for appeal has
               expired or, if an appeal is filed, until the city council has made a determination
               with respect to the appeal.

               (e)

               The appeal shall state the reasons that application of the exaction requirement is
               not roughly proportional to the nature and extent of the impact created by the proposed
               subdivision or development on the city's public facilities systems and does not reasonably
               benefit the proposed subdivision or development.

               (f)

               The appellant shall submit to the city engineer 15 copies of a study in support of
               the appeal that includes, with respect to each specific exaction requirement appealed,
               the following information within 30 days of the date of appeal, unless a longer time
               is requested:

               (1)

               Total capacity of the city's water, wastewater, roadway, drainage, or park system,
               as applicable, to be utilized by the proposed subdivision or development, employing
               standard measures of capacity and equivalency tables relating the type of development
               proposed to the quantity of system capacity to be consumed by the subdivision. If
               the proposed subdivision is to be developed in phases, such information also shall
               be provided for the entire development, including any phases already developed;

               (2)

               Total capacity to be supplied to the city's public facilities systems for water, wastewater,
               roadway, drainage or parks, as applicable, by the exaction requirement. This information
               shall include any capacity supplied by prior exaction requirements imposed on the
               development;

               (3)

               Comparison of the capacity of the applicable city public facilities systems to be
               consumed by the proposed subdivision or development with the capacity to be supplied
               to such systems by the proposed exaction requirement. In making this comparison, the
               impacts on the city's public facilities systems from the entire subdivision or development
               shall be considered;

               (4)

               The amount of any city participation in the costs of oversizing the public infrastructure
               improvements to be constructed by the applicant in accordance with the city's requirements;

               (5)

               Comparison of the minimum size and capacity required by city standards for the applicable
               public facilities systems to be utilized by the proposed subdivision or development
               with the size and capacity to be supplied by the proposed exaction requirement; and

               (6)

               Any other information that shows the alleged disproportionality between the impacts
               created by the proposed development and the exaction requirement imposed by the city.

               (g)

               The city engineer shall evaluate the appeal and supporting study and shall make a
               recommendation to the city council based upon the city engineer's analysis of the
               information contained in the study and utilizing the same factors considered by the
               engineer in making the original proportionality determination.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.10, 4-26-1999)"
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Secs. 36-1—36-18.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,AD VALOREM PROPERTY TAX,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Property Tax Code, V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 1.01 et seq."
Sec. 36-19.,Participation in appraisal district.,"The city hereby authorizes participation in the Johnson County Central Appraisal District.
               The said appraisal district shall be authorized to perform all appraisal and assessment
               functions required under the state property tax code. The city shall be responsible
               for the collection of its municipal taxes, unless other contractual arrangements are
               made.

               (Code 2008, § 34.32)"
Sec. 34-216.,City council decision.,"(a)

               The city council shall decide the appeal within 30 days of the date of final submission
               of any evidence by the applicant. Upon receipt of the final submission of evidence
               from the applicant, the city shall schedule a time and date for the city council to
               consider the appeal and shall cause the applicant to be notified at the address specified
               in the appeal form of the time, date and location at which the city council shall
               consider the appeal.

               (b)

               The applicant shall be allotted time, not to exceed 30 minutes, to present testimony
               at the city council meeting. The council shall base its decision on the criteria listed
               in sections 34-212(a) and 34-215(f) and may:

               (1)

               Deny the appeal and impose the exaction requirement in accordance with the city engineer's
               recommendation or the planning and zoning commission 's decision on the plat or other
               development application;

               (2)

               Grant the appeal, and waive in whole or in part an exaction requirement to the extent
               necessary to achieve proportionality; or

               (3)

               Grant the appeal, and direct that the city participate in the costs of acquiring land
               for or constructing the public infrastructure improvement.

               (c)

               In deciding an appeal, the city council shall determine whether application of the
               exaction requirement is roughly proportional to the nature and extent of the impact
               created by the proposed subdivision on the city's public facilities systems for water,
               wastewater, roadway, drainage, or park facilities, as applicable, and reasonably benefits
               the subdivision. In making such determination, the council shall consider:

               (1)

               The evidence submitted by the applicant;

               (2)

               The city engineer's report and recommendation, considering in particular the factors
               identified in sections 34-212(a) and 34-215(f); and

               (3)

               If the property is located within the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction, any recommendations
               from the county.

               (d)

               The city council may require the applicant or the city engineer to submit additional
               information that it deems relevant in making its decision.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.11, 4-26-1999)"
Secs. 42-469—42-473.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed §§ 42-469—42-473. Former §§ 42-469—42-473 pertained to ""General purpose
               and description""; ""Permitted uses""; ""Permitted specific uses""; ""Height and area regulations"";
               ""Parking regulations"", respectively, and were derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 16A.1—16A.5,
               adopted February 17, 2004."
Sec. 42-474.,Special construction requirements.,"(a)

               Masonry. All single-story buildings hereafter constructed or placed in the CBD shall have
               at least 75 percent of the exterior wall surface constructed of masonry and/or glass
               pane. All buildings having more than a single story hereafter constructed or placed
               in the CBD shall have at least 50 percent of the exterior wall surface constructed
               of masonry and/or glass pane. All additions hereafter constructed to buildings in
               the CBD shall have at least 50 percent of the exterior wall surface constructed of
               masonry and/or glass pane.

               (b)

               Signs. Projection signs may be erected in the CBD in accordance with the requirements of
               this subsection. The horizontal portion of any projecting sign shall not be more than
               six feet in length measured from the building face and shall not be closer than two
               feet from the back of the curb line. The height of a projection sign shall not exceed
               four feet and shall be an integral part of the architectural design of the attached
               building. The vertical clearance of a projection sign shall be as shown below:

                              Vertical Clearance

                              Maximum Projection

                              7 feet or less

                              3 inches

                              7 or 8 feet

                              12 inches

                              8 feet or more

                              4 feet

               &nbsp;

               Signs on commercial buildings should fit within existing features of the building's
               facade and not detract from or hide significant architectural details of the building.
               Sign styles common between the 1880's and 1950's are appropriate for the CBD.

               (c)

               Architectural guidelines. New development sites within the CBD shall not be permitted unless integrated with
               other historic buildings within the area to maintain the functional and visual appearance
               of the historic architectural style.

               Buildings within CBD shall be oriented toward the streets and pedestrian traffic in
               order to create a cohesive, pedestrian-oriented development plan. Building fronts
               and sidewalks may also be maintained for outdoor uses such as cafés, restaurant seating,
               street side seating, etc. Parking areas may be located in the front or rear of buildings
               to improve the overall appearance of the development from the street.

               New development/renovation in CBD may incorporate design elements dating from the
               1800's and early 1900's. Retail uses are preferred with parking in common areas. Roof
               lines featuring parapets, articulated cornice line, articulated ground floor levels,
               and strong corner treatments are a few of the design options. Exterior finishes should
               utilize the classic base colors of the Texas environment, e.g., tan, ochre, beige
               and terra cotta.

               A high quality durable base material, such as terra cotta, natural stone, cast stone,
               clay fired tile, or other approved masonry material is suggested for building facades
               abutting the sidewalk. The base should be a minimum of 18 inches in height and appropriately
               proportioned and detailed for the facade of the building.

               (d)

               Design. A minimum of three of the following elements must be incorporated in the design of
               a new or refurbished building in the CBD:

               • Overhangs

               • Cornices

               • String courses

               • Peaked roof forms

               • Arches

               • Lintels

               • Pilasters

               • Rustication

               • Canopies

               • Awnings or porticos

               • Outdoor patios

               (e)

               Pedestrian circulation requirements. Each lot within the CBD must provide on-site pedestrian facilities or public plazas
               or spaces that encourage pedestrian traffic on and to adjacent properties.

               (f)

               Street furnishings and lighting. Private new developments and expansions to existing developments within the CBD shall
               coordinate the selection and installation of street furniture and lighting with the
               standards selected by the city for the public areas adjacent to streets in order to
               maintain design continuity.

               (g)

               Non-conforming uses. A non-conforming use may be continued on a site indefinitely until the non-conforming
               use ceases for a minimum of six months or if more than 50 percent of the building's
               value is diminished by damage. In the event of a casualty in which no more than 50
               percent of the value of the structure is damaged or destroyed, the structure(s) may
               be rebuilt. Non-conforming buildings with more than 50 percent of the building's value
               is diminished by damage from a casualty must be rebuilt to current standards.

               (Ord. No. 2011-002, § 7, 2-21-2011;
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-019, § 1, 8-18-2014
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-475—42-499.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 34-217.,Action following decision of city council.,"(a)

               If the city council finds in favor of the applicant and waives the exaction requirement
               as a condition of plat approval, or modifies the exaction requirement to the extent
               necessary to achieve rough proportionality, the applicant shall resubmit the plat
               application to the planning and zoning commission or city official responsible for
               issuing the permit within 30 days of the date the city council takes action, with
               any modifications necessary to conform the plat with the city council's decision.
               The applicant shall not be deemed to have prevailed in the event that the city council
               modifies the exaction requirement.

               (b)

               If the city council finds in favor of an applicant for any other permit and waives
               the exaction requirement as a condition of permit approval, or modifies the exaction
               requirement to the extent necessary to achieve rough proportionality, the applicant
               shall resubmit the permit application to the responsible official within 30 days of
               the date the city council takes action, with any modifications necessary to conform
               the application with the city council's decision. Failure to day so will result in
               the expiration of any relief granted by the city council.

               (c)

               If the city council denies the appeal and the applicant has executed a waiver of the
               statutory period for acting upon a plat, the city shall place the plat application
               on the agenda of the planning and zoning commission within 30 days of the city council's
               decision.

               (d)

               If the rough proportionality appeal was submitted appealing the imposition of an exaction
               requirement for a plat application, and city council grants relief to an applicant
               but the applicant fails to conform the plat to the city council's decision within
               the 30-day period provided, the relief granted by the city council on the appeal shall
               expire.

               (e)

               If the plat application is modified to increase the number of residential dwelling
               units or the intensity of nonresidential uses, the city manager or city engineer may
               require a new study to validate the relief granted by the city council.

               (f)

               If the plat application for which relief was granted is denied on other grounds, a
               new appeal shall be required on any subsequent application.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.12, 4-26-1999)"
Sec. 34-218.,Appeal of city council decision.,"An applicant may appeal the decision of the city council to the county or district
               court of the county in which the development is located within 30 days of the date
               that the council issues its final decision. In the event that the applicant prevails
               in such action, the applicant will be entitled to attorneys' fees and costs, including
               expert witness fees.

               (Ord. No. 99-029, § 8A.13, 4-26-1999; Ord. No. 2006-034, 7-17-2006)"
Chapter 36,TAXATION,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Tax Code ch. 1 et seq.; finances, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 101 et seq."
Sec. 36-20.,Additional penalty for collection costs of delinquent taxes.,"(a)

               To enforce the collection of delinquent taxes pursuant to V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 6.30,
               it is hereby provided, as authorized by V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 33.07, that taxes that
               become delinquent on or after February 1 of a year, but not later than May 1 of that
               year, and that remain delinquent on July 1 of the year in which they become delinquent,
               shall incur an additional penalty in the amount of 15 percent of the amount of taxes,
               penalty and interest due to defray the cost of collection.

               (b)

               Taxes that become delinquent on or after July 1 of that year under V.T.C.A., Tax Code
               §§ 31.03, 31.031, 31.032, and/or 31.04, incur an additional penalty of 15 percent
               of the amount of taxes, penalty and interest due to defray the cost of collection.

               (Code 2008, § 34.34; Ord. No. 99-048, 7-3-1997)"
Sec. 36-21.,Freeport goods exempt from taxation.,"All of that property described in the Texas Constitution, article VIII, section 1-J,
               and commonly known as Freeport goods, shall be fully exempt from ad valorem taxation
               in the city beginning January 1, 2004. All previous actions by the city to tax Freeport
               goods are hereby rescinded.

               (Code 2008, § 34.50; Ord. No. 2004-002, 10-20-2003)

            State Law reference— 
               Tangible personal property exempt, V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 11.251."
Secs. 36-22—36-45.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Municipal sales and use tax act, V.T.C.A., Tax Code ch. 321."
Sec. 36-46.,Local sales tax authorized.,"In accordance with V.T.C.A., Tax Code ch. 321, a local sales and use tax of one percent
               has been adopted and is now imposed by the voters of the city as a result of an election
               held on December 12, 1967.

               (Code 2008, § 34.40; Ord. No. A-24, 11-8-1967)"
DIVISION 12.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (11) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 12, §§ 42-500—42-505, in its entirety.
               Former div. 10 pertained to ""M-1—Light Manufacturing/Industrial District"" and was
               derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 17.1—17.5, adopted February 17, 2004 and Ord. No.
               2009-002, § 8, adopted January 19, 2009."
Secs. 42-500—42-531.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 13.,M-2—HEAVY MANUFACTURING/INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT,NULL
Sec. 36-47.,Sales tax on residential utility services.,"(a)

               The sale, production, distribution, lease, or rental of and the use, storage, or other
               consumption of gas and electricity for residential use within the corporate limits
               of the city shall not be exempt from the tax imposed by the city under the local sales
               and use tax act.

               (b)

               The sales tax heretofore imposed by the city pursuant to the provisions of the local
               sales and use tax is continued on the sale, production, distribution, lease, or rental
               of and the use, storage, or other consumption of gas and electricity for residential
               use within the corporate limits of the city. The rate of the tax imposed shall be
               the same as the rate imposed by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 34.41)

            State Law reference— 
               Authority for this section, V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 321.105."
Sec. 36-48.,Telecommunications tax authorized.,"(a)

               A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services sold within the city.
               For purposes of this section, the sale of telecommunications services is consummated
               at the location of the telephone or other telecommunications device from which the
               call or other communication originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined,
               the sale is consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is
               billed.

               (b)

               The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the rate imposed by the
               city for all other local sales and use taxes as authorized by the legislature of the
               state.

               (c)

               In furtherance of the foregoing, the exemption afforded by V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 321.210,
               from the sales and use taxes on telecommunication services within the city, is hereby
               repealed.

               (Code 2008, § 34.42)

            State Law reference— 
               Authority to impose tax on telecommunications services, V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 321.210"
Secs. 36-49—36-69.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Hotel occupancy tax, V.T.C.A., Tax Code ch. 156; municipal hotel occupancy taxes,
               V.T.C.A., Tax Code ch. 351."
Sec. 36-76.,Rules and regulations.,"The city manager is authorized to make any rules and regulations necessary to effectively
               collect the tax. The city manager shall, upon giving reasonable notice, have access
               to all books and records necessary to enable the city manager to determine the correctness
               of any report filed as required by this article and the amounts of taxes due under
               this section.

               (Code 2008, § 34.106)"
Sec. 36-70.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Consideration means the cost of a room in a hotel, and does not include:

                  (1)

                  The cost of any food served or personal services rendered to the occupant not related
                  to cleaning and readying the room or space for occupancy; or

                  (2)

                  Any tax assessed by any other governmental agency for occupancy of the room.

               Hotel.

                  (1)

                  The term ""hotel"" means any building in which members of the public obtain sleeping
                  accommodation for consideration. The term includes a hotel, motel, tourist home, tourist
                  house, tourist court, lodginghouse, inn, roominghouse, or bed and breakfast.

                  (2)

                  The term ""hotel"" does not include:

                  a.

                  A hospital, sanitarium, or nursing home; or

                  b.

                  A dormitory or other housing facility owned or leased and operated by an institution
                  of higher education or a private or independent institution of higher education, as
                  those terms are defined by V.T.C.A., Education Code § 61.003, that is used by the
                  institution for the purpose of providing sleeping accommodations for persons engaged
                  in an educational program or activity at the institution.

               Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any room in
               a hotel.

               Occupant means any person who, for a consideration, uses, possesses, or has a right to use
               or possess any room in a hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access,
               license, contract, or agreement.

               Tax means the hotel occupancy tax levied in this chapter pursuant to V.T.C.A., Tax Code
               ch. 351.

               Tourist means an individual who travels from the individual's residence to a different municipality,
               county, state, or country for pleasure, recreation, education, or culture.

               Visitor information center means a building or a portion of a building used to distribute or disseminate information
               to tourists.

               (Code 2008, § 34.100)"
Sec. 36-71.,Levy and amount of tax.,"(a)

               There is hereby levied a tax upon the occupant of any room that:

               (1)

               Is in a hotel within the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction;

               (2)

               Is ordinarily used for sleeping; and

               (3)

               The cost of occupancy of which is $2.00 or more each day.

               (b)

               The tax is equal to seven percent of the consideration paid by the occupant of the
               room to the hotel.

               (Code 2008, § 34.101)"
Sec. 36-72.,Exemptions and refunds.,"(a)

               All persons, organizations, and entities, specified in V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 351.006,
               are exempt from the payment of the tax imposed under this article.

               (b)

               Any person, organization, or entity entitled to receive a refund of tax paid under
               this article may file a refund claim as provided in V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 156.154.

               (c)

               A person described in V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 156.103(c) shall pay the tax imposed by
               this article, but the state governmental entity with whom the person is associated
               is entitled to a refund of the tax paid.

               (d)

               To receive a refund of tax paid under this article, the governmental entity entitled
               to the refund must file a refund claim with the city manager on a form prescribed
               by the state comptroller and provided by the city manager. A governmental entity may
               file a refund claim with the city manager only for each calendar quarter for all reimbursements
               accrued during that quarter.

               (Code 2008, § 34.102)"
Sec. 36-73.,"Responsibility for collection, reporting, and payment of tax.","Every person owning, operating, managing, or controlling any hotel shall collect the
               tax for the city and report and pay the tax to the city in accordance with all requirements
               and procedures set forth in this article.

               (Code 2008, § 34.103)"
Sec. 36-75.,Tax collection on purchase of a hotel.,"(a)

               If a person liable for the payment of a tax under this chapter is the owner of the
               hotel and sells the hotel, the successor to the seller or the seller's assignee shall
               withhold an amount of the purchase price sufficient to pay the tax due until the seller
               provides a receipt from the city manager showing that the amount has been paid or
               a certificate stating that no tax is due.

               (b)

               The purchaser of a hotel who fails to withhold an amount of the purchase price as
               required by this section is liable for the amount required to be withheld to the extent
               of the value of the purchase price.

               (c)

               The purchaser of a hotel may request that the city manager issue a certificate stating
               that no tax is due or issue a statement of the amount required to be paid before a
               certificate may be issued. The city manager shall issue a certificate or statement
               not later than 60 days after receiving the request.

               (d)

               If the city manager fails to issue the certificate or statement within the period
               provided by subsection (c) of this section, the purchaser is released from the obligation
               to withhold the purchase price or pay the amount due.

               (Code 2008, § 34.105)"
Sec. 36-74.,Reports; payments; fees.,"(a)

               On the 20th day of the month following each month in which a tax is earned, every
               person required by this chapter to collect the tax shall file a report with the city
               manager showing:

               (1)

               The consideration paid for all occupancies in the preceding month;

               (2)

               The amount of the tax collected on the occupancies; and

               (3)

               Any other information the city manager may reasonably require.

               (b)

               Every person required by this chapter to collect the tax shall pay the tax due on
               all occupancies in the preceding month to the city manager at the time of filing the
               report required under subsection (a).

               (c)

               Every person collecting a tax under this chapter may deduct a one percent collection
               fee from the gross amount of tax collected on all occupancies in the preceding month
               if the tax is paid to and received by the city manager no later than the 20th day
               of the month following the month in which the tax is required to be collected, or,
               if the 20th day falls on a weekend or holiday, by the next business day. If the tax
               is paid by mail, the date of receipt by the city manager is deemed to be the date
               the payment is postmarked by the U.S. Postal Service.

               (d)

               Each remittance of a tax required by this chapter must contain the following statement
               and representation signed by the person required by this chapter to collect the tax:

               ""The tax remitted and paid to the City of Alvarado with this report was collected
               pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 36, Alvarado City Code, as amended.""

               (e)

               The city manager shall maintain a record that accurately identifies the receipt and
               expenditure of all revenue derived from the tax imposed by this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 34.104;
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-008, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 38-283.,Inspection of equipment.,"The chief of police shall have the right to inspect the equipment of all operators
               providing towing service under the provisions of this article. Said inspection may
               be made at any and all reasonable hours and places. The chief, after inspection, may
               authorize the removal of an operator's name from the list for failure to operate and
               maintain its equipment in an efficient and good manner.

               (Code 2008, § 72.10)"
Sec. 38-284.,Driver registration.,"All drivers for such tow truck operators shall be required to register with the city
               police department, and a driver's license report from the department of public safety
               shall be requested.

               (Code 2008, § 72.11)"
Sec. 38-285.,Fencing of yards.,"All yards and storage areas for damaged vehicles which are towed in by tow truck operators
               shall be fenced in order to provide protection for the vehicles in custody.

               (Code 2008, § 72.12)"
Sec. 36-77.,Use and allocation of revenues.,"(a)

               The revenue derived from any hotel occupancy tax imposed and levied by this article
               may be used only to promote tourism and the convention and hotel industry, and that
               use is limited to the following:

               (1)

               The acquisition of sites for and the construction, improvement, enlarging, equipping,
               repairing, operation, and maintenance of convention center facilities or visitor information
               centers, or both;

               (2)

               The furnishing of facilities, personnel, and materials for the registration of convention
               delegates or registrants;

               (3)

               Advertising and conducting solicitations and promotional programs to attract tourists
               and convention delegates or registrants to the city or its vicinity;

               (4)

               The encouragement, promotion, improvement, and application of the arts, including
               instrumental and vocal music, dance, drama, folk art, creative writing, architecture,
               design and allied fields, painting, sculpture, photography, graphic and draft arts,
               motion pictures, radio, television, tape and sound recording, and other arts relating
               to the presentation, performance, execution, and exhibition of these major art forms;
               and

               (5)

               Historical restoration and preservation projects or activities or advertising and
               conducting solicitations and promotional programs to encourage tourists and convention
               delegates to visit preserved historic sites or museums:

               a.

               At or in the immediate vicinity of convention center facilities or visitor information
               centers; or

               b.

               Located elsewhere in the city or its vicinity that would be frequented by tourists
               and convention delegates.

               (b)

               Revenue from any hotel occupancy tax imposed and levied by this article may not be
               used for the general revenue purposes for general governmental operations of the city.

               (c)

               Allocations of the hotel occupancy tax revenue by the city for the purposes set out
               by subsection (a) of this section must comply with the provisions of V.T.C.A., Tax
               Code ch. 351.

               (Code 2008, § 34.107)"
Sec. 38-293.,Signs required on tow trucks.,"Each tow truck doing business in the city shall be marked by displaying a sign on
               each door with the name, address, and telephone number of the towing service in letters
               at least one inch high.

               (Code 2008, § 72.20)"
Secs. 38-294—38-319.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,AUTO SALVAGE DEALERS,"Footnotes:  --- (8) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Salvage vehicle dealers, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 2302; authority of municipalities
               to regulate, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code § 2302.005."
Sec. 36-78.,Penalties.,"(a)

               A person commits an offense if the person:

               (1)

               Fails to collect the tax imposed by this chapter;

               (2)

               Fails to file a report as required by this chapter;

               (3)

               Fails to pay the city manager the tax when payment is due;

               (4)

               Files a false report; or

               (5)

               Fails to comply with section 36-75(a) when purchasing a hotel.

               (b)

               An offense committed under subsection (a) is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00.

               (c)

               In addition to any criminal penalties imposed under subsection (b), a person failing
               to pay the tax to the city manager by the 20th day of the month following the month
               in which the tax is required by this chapter to be collected shall pay an amount equal
               to 15 percent of the tax due as a penalty. Delinquent taxes draw interest at the rate
               of ten percent per year beginning the first day after the due date and continuing
               until the tax is paid.

               (d)

               In addition, the city is authorized to file legal proceedings against the hotel for
               noncompliance seeking any other remedies provided by state law.

               (e)

               In addition to the amount of any tax owed, a person is liable to the city for all
               reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the city in enforcing this chapter against
               the person and in collecting any tax owed by the person under this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 34.108; Ord. No. 2006-024, 5-15-2006;
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-008, § 2, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 36-79—36-99.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,OCCUPATION BUSINESS TAX,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Local occupation tax, Tex. Const. art. VIII, § 1(f), V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 101.008."
Sec. 36-100.,Occupation and amusement business taxes.,"There shall be levied and collected from every person pursuing any occupation or conducting
               any amusement or exhibitions taxed by the general laws of the state, an annual occupation
               tax equal in each instance to one-half of the state occupation tax, which taxes shall
               be paid annually in advance except where otherwise provided by state law, in which
               event the same may be paid as is provided by state law.

               (Code 2008, § 113.01)"
Chapter 38,TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 1 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Secs. 38-1—38-18.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,TRAFFIC REGULATIONS,NULL
Sec. 38-20.,Skates and skateboards.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on skates or on a skateboard on any public
               sidewalk of the city square.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on skates or on a skateboard on any public
               street.

               (c)

               A person under 17 years of age who violates subsection (a) or (b) of this section
               shall be taken to a parent or guardian and issued a written warning for a first violation
               of this section. Subsequent violations shall be punishable to section 1-12.

               (Code 2008, § 70.113; Ord. No. 2000-017, 4-24-2000; Ord. No. 2004-026, 2-16-2004)"
Sec. 38-21.,Use of unmuffled compression release engine brakes prohibited.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to intentionally use unmuffled
               compression release engine brakes on a public road, highway, street, parking lot,
               or alley located within the territorial limits of the city, except in an emergency.
               Appropriate signage shall be erected at locations throughout the city as deemed necessary
               by the city manager.

               (b)

               The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Compression release engine brakes shall include any engine retarding brake system of dynamic braking device which alters
               the normal compression of the engine thereby converting the engine into an air compressor
               for the purposes of braking without the use of wheel brakes.

               Muffled means fitted with a device that absorbs noise and, therefore, reduces the sound made
               by the compression release engine brakes.

               (Code 2008, § 70.120; Ord. No. 2006-014, 1-23-2006)"
Secs. 38-22—38-45.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Traffic signs, signals and markings, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 544."
Sec. 38-46.,To be consistent with state manual.,"All traffic control devices including signs, signals, and markings (pavement and/or
               curb) installed or used for the purpose of directing and controlling traffic within
               the city shall conform with the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, volumes
               I and II (hereafter called the manual). All signs, signals and markings erected or
               used by the city shall be uniform and located so far as practicable according to the
               directions shown in the manual. All existing traffic control devices and those erected
               in the future by the city being consistent with the manual, state law, and this chapter
               shall be official traffic control devices.

               (Code 2008, § 70.10)

            State Law reference— 
               State highway and public transportation commission to adopt manual, V.T.C.A., Transportation
               Code § 544.001."
Sec. 38-47.,Director of public works to implement placement and maintenance.,"(a)

               The director of public works is authorized and directed to adopt signs, signals, devices,
               and markings to regulate, warn, and guide traffic.

               (b)

               The director of public works is authorized to place and maintain, or cause to be placed
               and maintained, any traffic control devices, signals, signs, and markings as he may
               deem necessary to continue and carry out the provisions of this chapter, subject to
               the approval of the city council.

               (c)

               The existence of a traffic control device signal or sign shall constitute prima facie
               evidence that such is an official traffic control device, signal, or sign lawfully
               erected and placed.

               (Code 2008, § 70.11)"
Sec. 38-48.,Driver to obey traffic control devices.,"The driver of any vehicle, motor vehicle, or animal shall obey the instructions of
               any official traffic control device, sign, signal, or marking applicable thereto placed
               in accordance with this chapter and city ordinances, unless otherwise directed by
               a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
               vehicle permitted by this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 70.12)

            State Law reference— 
               Compliance with traffic control device, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 544.004."
Sec. 38-49.,Authority of chief of police to establish temporary traffic regulations.,"The chief of police is authorized to establish temporary regulations for the control
               of traffic during celebrations, parades, and disruptions due to accidents or disasters.
               Such regulations shall have the same force as if established by specific ordinance,
               but shall not be valid for more than 20 days. Regulations authorized include one-way
               street designations, stop signs, speed limitations, detours and street closure. All
               such regulations shall be implemented only after erection of signs.

               (Code 2008, § 70.15)"
Sec. 38-50.,Pioneers and old settlers reunion; temporary traffic regulations.,"(a)

               During the week beginning the second Monday of August of each year, Reunion Drive
               shall be one way from Bill Jackson Drive to Glenwood (Old U.S. Highway 67) from 6:00
               p.m. until 12:00 a.m.

               (b)

               Parking shall not be permitted on either side of Glenwood adjacent to the Old Settlers
               North parking lot during the week beginning on the second Monday of August of each
               year between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.

               (Code 2008, § 70.17; Ord. No. 97-018, 2-24-1997)"
Sec. 38-51.,Stop signs authorized.,"Stop signs shall be erected at the following locations:

                  (1)

                  North Spears and East Hopper: Four-way stop.

                  (2)

                  Purdom and Friou: Four-way stop.

                  (3)

                  South Spears and West Davis: Four-way stop.

                  (4)

                  5th Street and Fannin Street: On Fannin Street.

                  (5)

                  South Friou Street and East Davis Avenue: On South Friou Street.

               (Ord. No. 2012-040, § 1, 12-17-2012; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-013
                  
               , § 1, 6-20-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-001
                  
               , § 1, 1-22-2018; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-009
                  
               , § 1, 5-21-2018; Ord. No.
               
                  2020-015
                  
               , § 1, 12-14-2020)"
Secs. 38-52—38-73.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,ACCIDENTS,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Accidents and accident reports, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 550."
Sec. 40-143.,Coordination with regional water planning groups.,"The service area of the city is located within the Region G and Region C water planning
               areas and the city has provided a copy of this plan to the North Texas Region/Brazos
               Region water planning groups.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-144.,Authorization.,"The city manager, or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed to implement
               the applicable provisions of this plan upon determination that such implementation
               is necessary to protect health, safety, and welfare. The city manager, or his/her
               designee, shall have the authority to initiate or terminate drought or other water
               supply emergency response measures as described in this plan.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 38-74.,Accident reports.,"(a)

               The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of
               any person or property damage to an apparent extent of $500.00 or more shall immediately,
               by the quickest means of communication, either verbal or written, give notice of such
               accident to the police department if such accident occurs within this city.

               (b)

               The police department may require any driver of a vehicle involved in an accident,
               of which report must be made as provided in this section, to make a supplemental oral
               or written report whenever the original report is found to be insufficient or inadequate,
               and may require witnesses of such accident to render reports to the police department.

               (c)

               Every law enforcement officer, other than members of the city police department and
               state department of public safety, who, in the regular course of duty, investigates
               an accident of which report must be made as required in this section, either at the
               time of and at the scene of the accident or thereafter by interviewing participants
               or witnesses, shall, within 24 hours after completing such investigation, forward
               a written report of such accident to the police department of this city. Every such
               report shall be made on the appropriate form provided by the police department and
               shall contain all of the information required therein, unless not available. Such
               report shall be without prejudice to the officer so reporting and shall be for the
               confidential use of the police department.

               (d)

               Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a required accident
               report and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable
               of making the report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made such report.

               (Code 2008, § 70.20; Ord. No. 2001-006, 11-27-2000)

            State Law reference— 
               Municipal authority to require accident reports, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 550.067."
Sec. 38-75.,Removing vehicle from scene of accident.,"It shall be unlawful for the driver or any other person to remove any vehicle from
               the scene of an accident, a report of which is required by section 38-74, until authorized to do so by a police officer of this city. This section shall not
               apply if there exists or arises a duty on the part of such driver or other person
               in control of such vehicle to use the vehicle in carrying any person injured in the
               accident to a clinic or hospital for medical or surgical treatment.

               (Code 2008, § 70.21)"
Sec. 38-76.,Restrictions on activities of tow truck drivers at scene of accident.,"It shall be unlawful for the driver of any person in charge of any vehicle equipped
               with a crane, hoist, winch, or towing device, who has answered a call to or is attending
               the scene of any collision or accident of one or more vehicles on any highway in this
               city, to remove or attempt to remove any vehicle involved in such collision or accident,
               or in any way to interfere with or change the position of any such vehicle, except
               upon authority or direction and in the presence of a police officer of this city,
               unless such change is made or attempted for the purpose of releasing a person imprisoned
               within or under such vehicle involved in such collision or accident. It shall likewise
               be unlawful for the driver or person in charge of any such vehicle equipped with a
               crane, hoist, winch, or towing device to remove any vehicle from the scene of an accident
               or collision, without the consent of the owner of the vehicle so removed, unless directed
               by a police officer to remove such vehicle as a public safety measure or for the protection
               of private property.

               (Code 2008, § 70.22)"
Secs. 38-77—38-95.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTIONS,NULL
Sec. 38-96.,Unlawful to maintain traffic obstruction.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct or injure or cause to be
               obstructed or injured or to maintain an obstruction in any manner whatsoever upon
               any street, alley, or other public way.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or occupy any lot in the city to
               allow any plant or tree to accumulate or grow or any object or vehicle to be maintained
               on said lot in such a manner as to obstruct the vision of persons using any street
               or alley contiguous thereto.

               (Code 2008, § 70.50)"
DIVISION 9.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (9) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 9, §§ 42-418—42-423, in its entirety.
               Former div. 9 pertained to ""C-1—Commercial District—Office, Light Retail And Neighborhood
               Services"" and was derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 15.1—15.6, adopted February 17,
               2004; Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2J(15.6), adopted January 19, 2009 and Ord. No. 2011-002,
               § 5, adopted February 21, 2011."
Secs. 42-418—42-444.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 38-97.,City may abate obstruction and assess lien.,"(a)

               Should any owner of any lot within the city who shall be in violation of section 38-96 fail and/or refuse to remove any object or vehicle or to cut down and/or remove such
               plant or tree within ten days after notice to said owner to do so, in writing, or
               by letter addressed to such owner at his post office address, or within ten days after
               notice by publication as many as two times within ten consecutive days in any newspaper
               in the state, the city may remove such object or vehicle or cut down and/or remove
               such plants or trees, or cause the same to be done and may pay therefor, and charge
               the expenses incurred in doing such work or having such work done or improvements
               made to the owner of such lot or lots or real estate. If such work is done or improvements
               made at the expense of the city, then such expenses shall be assessed on the real
               estate or lot upon which such expense was incurred.

               (b)

               Should any plant, tree, object, or vehicle encroach upon any public right-of-way,
               the city shall have the authority to cut back or trim such plant or tree and to remove
               the object or vehicle or portion thereof from such right-of-way.

               (Code 2008, § 70.51)"
Sec. 38-98.,Filing statement of expenses.,"The mayor or his designee shall file a statement of such expenses incurred under section 38-97, giving the amount of such expenses and the date on which said work was done or improvements
               made, with the county clerk; and the city shall have a privileged lien on such lot
               or real estate upon which said work was done or adjacent to any street which shall
               be cleared or any work done under this section in accordance with the provisions of
               V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 342, which said lien shall be second only to
               tax liens and liens for street improvements; and said amount shall bear ten percent
               interest from the date said statement was filed. It is further provided that for any
               such expenditures and interest, as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and recovery
               and foreclosure of said lien may be had in the name of the city and the statement
               of expenses so made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie
               proof of the amount expended for such work or improvements.

               (Code 2008, § 70.52; Ord. No. 2011-026, § 2, 8-15-2011)"
Sec. 38-99.,Temporary street closings for celebrations.,"Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, including section 38-96 to the contrary, it shall be lawful for the city council, on majority vote, to authorize
               the closing of designated portions of public streets to motor vehicles during specified
               hours on designated dates for celebrations such as block parties or Old Settlers Reunion.
               Such closures shall be designated by barricades and signs.

               (Code 2008, § 70.53; Ord. No. 2002-003, 10-22-2001)"
Secs. 38-100—38-126.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 38-127.,Duty of all persons to use due care.,"(a)

               No person shall drive a vehicle on any street in the city limits at a speed greater
               than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard for the actual
               and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall be so controlled
               as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance
               or on entering a highway or street in compliance with legal requirements, and it shall
               be the duty of all persons to use due care.

               (b)

               No person shall operate or drive any vehicle within the city limits of the city on
               any street at a speed greater than 30 miles per hour, unless signs are erected designating
               another speed limit or in any alley at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour.

               (Code 2008, § 70.70)"
Sec. 38-128.,Speed limits on specific streets.,"The following prima facie speed limits for vehicles are hereby determined and declared
               to be the maximum reasonable and prudent speed limit for vehicles traveling upon the
               following names streets and highways or parts thereof:

                  (1)

                  U.S. Highway No. 67:

                  a.

                  From the west city limit to a point 1.16 miles east of the west city limit, 45 miles
                  per hour, except where signed for school zone.

                  b.

                  From a point 1.16 miles east of the west city limit easterly a distance of 1.159 miles
                  to the east city limit, 55 miles per hour.

                  (2)

                  FM 1807:

                  a.

                  From intersection of FM 1807 and FM 1706 easterly to a point 0.360 miles east of said
                  intersection, 30 miles per hour.

                  b.

                  From a point 0.360 miles east of the intersection of FM 1807 and FM 1706 to a point
                  0.483 miles east of said intersection (east city limit), 45 miles per hour, except
                  where signed for school zone.

                  (3)

                  The maximum prima facia limit on Travis, Rusk, 4th and 5th Streets is declared to
                  be 30 miles per hour.

                  (4)

                  Highway: IH 35W - frontage roads:

                  a.

                  Control-section: 14-04.

                  From MP 7.659 north 1.542 miles to MP 9.201, zoned at 55 mph.

                  From MP 9.201 north 0.699 miles to MP 9.900, zoned at 45 mph.

                  From MP 9.900 north 1.231 miles to MP 11.131, zoned at 35 mph.

                  b.

                  Control section: 14-03:

                  From MP 11.131 north 0.308 miles to MP 11.439, zoned at 35 mph.

                  From MP 11.439 north 2.227 miles to MP 13.666, zoned at 50 mph.

                  (5)

                  Highway: FM 3136:

                  Control section: 3348-01.

                  From MP 8.306 east 2.076 miles to MP 10.382, zoned at 60 mph.

                  (6)

                  Highway: I-35W:

                  Control section: 0014-13.

                  From MP 0.000 south 1.818 miles to MP 1.818, zoned at 45 mph.

                  Control section: 0014-13.

                  From MP 1.818 south 0.470 miles to MP 2.288, zoned at 35 mph.

                  (7)

                  Control section: 1600-02:

                  Highway:

                  City of Alvarado—Johnson County, Texas.

                  MP 0.000 east 0.367 miles to MP 0.367, zoned at 35 mph.

                  MP 0.367 east 1.396 miles to MP 1.763, zoned at 45 mph.

                  (8)

                  Control section: 0260-01

                  Highway:

                  City of Alvarado—Johnson County, Texas.

                  MP 5.400 westerly 2.760 miles to MP 8.160, zoned at 60 mph.

                  MP 8.160 westerly 0.311 miles to MP 8.471, zoned at 55 mph.

                  MP 8.471 westerly 1.654 miles to MP 10.125, zoned at 45 mph.

                  MP 10.125 westerly 0.223 miles to MP 10.348, zoned at 60 mph.

                  (9)

                  Control section 0259-05:

                  MP 0.000 westerly 0.883 miles to MP 0.883, zoned at 60 mph.

                  (10)

                  The maximum prima facie speed limit on Estates Boulevard, Shirley Drive, Lakeview
                  Drive, Tammy Court, Renee Drive and Charles Drive is declared to be 20 miles per hour.

                  (11)

                  The maximum prima facie speed limit on Stonegate Boulevard is declared to be 20 miles
                  per hour.

                  (12)

                  The maximum prima facie speed limit on Apache Trail, Shawnee Trail, Seminole Trail,
                  Navajo Trail, Comanche Trail and Cheyenne Trail is declared to be 20 miles per hour.

                  (13)

                  The maximum prima facie speed limit on Estates Boulevard, Shirley Drive, Lakeview
                  Drive, Tammy Court, Renee Drive and Charles Drive is declared to be 20 miles per hour.

                  (14)

                  The maximum prima facie speed limit on 5th Street is declared to be 20 miles per hour.

               (Code 2008, § 70.71; Ord. No. 89-001, 2-27-1989; Ord. No. 91-014, 6-10-1991; Ord.
               No. 2000-046, 9-11-2000; Ord. No. 2002-038, 7-22-2002; Ord. No. 2007-008, 2-19-2007;
               Ord. No. 2007-34, 10-15-2007; Ord. No. 2009-006, § 1, 2-16-2009; Ord. No. 2009-020,
               § 1, 7-20-2009; Ord. No. 2012-039, § 1, 12-17-2012; Ord. No. 2014-002, § 1, 2-17-2014;
               Ord. No.
               
                  2014-028
                  
               , § 1, 10-20-2014; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-024
                  
               , § 1, 9-19-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-004
                  
               , § 1, 3-19-2018)"
Sec. 38-159.,Designated.,"(a)

               South Spears Street between College and Weaver Streets is designated as a one-way
               street and traffic shall be restricted to traveling in the southbound direction only.

               (b)

               Weaver Street between Spears and Friou Streets is designated as a one-way street and
               traffic shall be restricted to traveling in the eastbound direction only.

               (c)

               Friou Street between College and Weaver Streets is designated as a one-way street
               and traffic shall be restricted to traveling in the northbound direction only.

               (d)

               Reserved.

               (Code 2008, § 70.80; Ord. No. 2004-025, 2-16-2004; Ord. No. 2012-031, § 1, 10-15-2012)"
Sec. 40-147.,Criteria for initiation and termination of drought response stages.,"The city manager, or his/her designee shall monitor water supply and/or demand conditions
               on a weekly basis and shall determine when conditions warrant initiation or termination
               of each stage of the plan, that is, when the specified triggers are reached.

                  (a)

                  Stage I. Voluntary Water Conservation.

                  Stage I will begin: Every April 1
                  
                     st
                     
                  , the utility will mail a public announcement to its customers and a notice will be
                  posted on the city's website.

                  Stage I will end: Every September 30
                  
                     th
                     
                  , the utility will mail a public announcement to its customers and a notice will be
                  posted on the city's website.

                  Utility measure. This announcement will be designed to increase customer awareness of water conservation
                  and encourage the most efficient use of water.

                  Water use restrictions. Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the use of water for nonessential
                  purpose and to practice water conservation.

                  (b)

                  Stage II. Mild Water Shortage Conditions.

                  Stage II will begin: When the water usage reaches 60 percent of total capacity.

                  Stage II will end: When water usage drops below 60 percent of total capacity for ten consecutive days.
                  Stage I will become operative.

                  Utility measure. A notice will be posted on the city's website and information sent by CTY-Connect-the
                  call around.

                  Water use restrictions. Water customers are restricted from outdoor watering during the day except by hand-held
                  hose, faucet-filled bucket/watering can, or drip irrigation. Customers using hose-end
                  sprinklers/irrigation systems shall refrain from use except between the hours of 12:00
                  midnight and 8:00 a.m.; addresses ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6, 8) shall be
                  limited to Monday's and Thursday's, odd addresses (1, 3, 5, 7, 9) shall be limited
                  to Tuesday's and Friday's.

                  Target. Achieve a ten percent reduction in total water usage.

                  (c)

                  Stage III. Moderate Water Shortage Conditions.

                  Stage III will begin: When the water usage reaches 75 percent of total capacity.

                  Stage III will end: When water usage drops below 75 percent of total capacity for ten consecutive days.
                  Stage II will become operative.

                  Utility measures. A notice will be posted on the city's website and notification sent by CTY-Connect-the
                  call around.

                  Water use restrictions. Water customers are restricted from outdoor watering during the day except by hand-held
                  hose, faucet-filled bucket/watering can, or drip irrigation. Customers using hose
                  -end sprinklers / irrigation systems shall refrain from use except between the hours
                  of 12:00 midnight and 8:00 a.m.; addresses ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6, 8)
                  shall be limited to Monday's, odd addresses (1, 3, 5, 7, 9) shall be limited to Tuesday's.
                  No outdoor washing of any motor vehicle, motor bike, boat, trailer, or other vehicle
                  shall be allowed at any time, except on the premises of a commercial car wash. Use
                  of water to fill a pool shall only be done during the normal times listed for watering.
                  Operation of any ornamental fountain or pool is prohibited except where necessary
                  to support aquatic life. Wash down of any sidewalk, wall away, driveway, parking lot,
                  tennis court, building, or other hard-surfaced areas shall be prohibited.

                  Target. Achieve a 25 percent reduction in total water usage.

                  (d)

                  Stage IV. Severe Water Shortage Conditions.

                  Stage IV will begin: When the water usage reaches 85 percent of total capacity.

                  Stage IV will end: When the water usage drops below 85 percent of total capacity for ten consecutive
                  days. Stage III will become operative.

                  Utility measures. A notice will be posted on the city's website and notification sent by CTY-Connect-the
                  call around.

                  Water use restrictions. Water customers are restricted from outdoor watering during the day except by hand-held
                  hose, faucet filled bucket/watering can, or drip irrigation. All other outdoor use
                  of water is prohibited. Commercial car wash will be allowed to operate.

                  Target. Achieve a 35 percent reduction in total water usage.

                  (e)

                  Stage V. Critical Water Shortage Condition.

                  Stage V [will begin]: When the water usage reaches 90 percent of total capacity.

                  Stage V [will end]: When the water usage drops below 90 percent of total capacity for ten consecutive
                  days. Stage IV will become operative.

                  Utility measures. A notice will be posted on the city's website and notification sent by CTY-Connect-the
                  call around, news, media (i.e., radio, TV, newspaper)

                  Water use restrictions. All outdoor water use is completely prohibited. This includes commercial car washes.

                  Target. Achieve a 40 percent reduction in total water usage.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
DIVISION 2.,SANITARY SEWER REGULATIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (3) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority to control and regulate waste discharges and require pretreatment, V.T.C.A.,
               Water Code §§ 26.176, 26.177."
Sec. 40-175.,Definitions.,"The sanitary sewer system of the city consists of main and lateral conduits of salt
               glazed vitrified earthenware, polyvinylchloride (PVC) plastic, concrete, or other
               similar pipe, with necessary accessories, and are designed to transport liquid waste
               materials. The sewers in the alleys or streets adjacent to the various lots are called
               main or lateral sewers. The sewers leading from the main or lateral sewers to the
               property on either side are called house sewers.

               (Code 2008, § 51.90)"
Sec. 38-129.,School zones.,"(a)

               The maximum prima facie limit on the following parts of streets within the city hereby
               is declared to be 20 miles per hour on school days between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
               to 8:15 a.m. and 3:15 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.:

               (1)

               Davis between a point 0.5 miles east of Ezell to a point 0.3 miles east of Ezell.

               (2)

               Cummings between U. S. 67 and a point .2837 miles north of U. S. 67.

               (3)

               Cummings between a point 0.01 miles south of CR508 and a point 0.02 miles north of
               CR 508.

               (4)

               Maple Street eastbound from the intersection with Parkway to MP 0.19 and westbound
               from the intersection with CR 1807 to MP 0.74.

               (b)

               The maximum prima facie limit on the following parts of streets within the city hereby
               is declared to be 20 miles per hour on school days between the hours of 11:00 a.m.
               to 1:00 p.m.:

               (1)

               Davis between a point 0.5 miles east of Ezell to a point 0.3 miles east of Ezell.

               (2)

               Cummings between a point 0.01 miles south of CR508 and a point 0.02 miles north of
               CR 508.

               (c)

               The maximum prima facie limit on the following parts of streets within the city hereby
               is declared to be 35 miles per hour when signed for school crossing:

               (1)

               U. S. Highway 67 from approximately 7,100 feet west of Cummings Road easterly 0.30
               miles to a point approximately 795 feet east of Cummings Road.

               (2)

               Control Section: 1600-02 Highway:

               School zone MP 0.516 east 0.613 miles to MP 1.129; zoned at 30 mph when flashing,
               45 mph at all other times.

               (3)

               Control Section 0260-01:

               School zone: MP 8.671 westerly 0.300 miles to MP 8.971, zoned at 35 mph when flashing,
               45 mph all other times.

               (Code 2008, § 70.72; Ord. No. 89-001, 2-27-1989; Ord. No. 2007-005, 12-18-2006; Ord.
               No. 2009-006, § 1, 2-16-2009; Ord. No. 2009-014, § 1, 4-20-2009; Ord. No. 2009-020,
               § 1, 7-20-2009; Ord. No. 2011-014, § 1, 6-20-2011; Ord. No.
               
                  2014-031
                  
               , § 1, 10-20-2014; Ord. No.
               
                  2015-017
                  
               , § 1, 8-10-2015)"
Sec. 38-130.,Excessively slow speed prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful to drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
               normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary
               for safe operation or in compliance with law or at the direction of a law enforcement
               officer. Police officers are hereby authorized to enforce this provision by directions
               to drivers. In the event of apparent willful disobedience to this provision and refusal
               to comply with the direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
               operation of a motor vehicle by a driver shall be a misdemeanor.

               (Code 2008, § 70.73)

            State Law reference— 
               Minimum speed regulations, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 545.363."
Sec. 38-160.,License granted to use College Avenue right-of-way.,"(a)

               A street license is hereby granted to Central Baptist Church for a period of 25 years
               from a start date of May 14, 2001, for use of a portion of the street right-of-way
               adjacent to church property located at 100 E. College Avenue. Such use is limited
               to six columns located five feet behind the existing curb with a canopy at least eight
               feet high above the sidewalk area and extending ten feet from the church building
               57.5 feet wide.

               (b)

               Said church shall pay a fee for such license as currently established or as hereafter
               adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (c)

               Said church shall hold the city harmless from all claims for damage or injury resulting
               from use of the public right-of-way for the area for which such street use license
               is issued and shall carry liability insurance thereon in an amount as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time with the
               city as an additional insured. The license shall not be effective until a copy of
               such insurance policy is filed with the city secretary.

               (d)

               The license is conditioned on said church keeping the insurance in force and keeping
               the improvements in good repair. The license is not transferable.

               (e)

               Should the city require any portion of the property for which this license is issued
               for any public purpose, this license shall automatically expire and be of no further
               force and effect.

               (Code 2008, § 70.81; Ord. No. 2001-024, 5-14-2001)"
Secs. 38-161—38-188.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 7.,TRUCK ROUTES,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Vehicle size and weight, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 621 et seq."
Sec. 38-189.,Truck routes established.,"Truck routes are established in and through the city as follows:

                  (1)

                  Business U.S. 81 at all points in the city.

                  (2)

                  Business U.S. 67 from the northeast city limits southward to the intersection with
                  College and westward to the intersection of College and Parkway Drive, thence along
                  Parkway Drive to the northwest city limit.

                  (3)

                  South Sparks Street from the intersection with College southward to Business U.S.
                  81.

                  (4)

                  Davis Avenue from the east city limit to the intersection with South Sparks Street.

               (Code 2008, § 70.90; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-018
                  
               , § 1, 7-18-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2021-003
                  
               , § 1, 6-21-2021)"
Sec. 38-191.,Compliance required.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with gross vehicular
               weight rating in excess of 18,000 pounds, or 18,000 pounds gross cargo weight rating
               in the case of a truck trailer or tractor trailer unit, to use, travel upon, or drive
               over any street or highway within the city not designated as a truck route, except
               that if the point of origin or destination, for commercial purposes only, for any
               such motor vehicle shall be off such truck route, then such vehicle may proceed by
               the shortest possible route to and from such destination to the nearest truck route.

               (Code 2008, § 70.92)"
Sec. 38-192.,Separate offenses.,"Each deviation either in the direction of or in the direction away from a truck route
               shall constitute a separate offense.

               (Code 2008, § 70.93)"
Secs. 38-193—38-247.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,"STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING","Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Authority of city to regulate standing and parking of vehicles, V.T.C.A., Transportation
               Code § 542.202(a)(2); stopping, standing and parking, V.T.C.A., Transportation Code
               § 545.301 et seq."
Sec. 38-248.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               Ord. No.
               
                  2016-004
                  
               , § 1, adopted March 21, 2016, repealed § 38-248 in its entirety. Former § 38-248
               pertained to ""Parking in residential areas,"" and was derived from Code 2008, § 71.01."
Sec. 38-249.,Parking of heavy trucks on streets prohibited.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any truck with a carrying capacity
               of five tons or more to park said truck on any city-maintained street, parking lot,
               right-of-way, or other public place.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of a truck tractor to park such vehicle
               in any residentially zoned property or on any street or right-of-way adjacent to residentially
               zoned property.

               (Code 2008, § 71.02; Ord. No. 99-043, 8-23-1999)"
Sec. 38-250.,Parallel parking.,"Except as otherwise provided in section 38-251, every vehicle parked upon any city street shall be parked so that the right-hand
               wheels thereof are parallel to and within 18 inches of the right-hand curb or edge
               of the roadway.

               (Code 2008, § 71.03)"
Sec. 38-251.,Angle parking.,"(a)

               It shall be lawful to park vehicles at an angle not greater than 45 degrees to the
               line of traffic at such places in the city as the city council shall, by ordinance,
               determine that angle parking shall be permitted and shall cause the same to be marked
               or signed, and in all places where sidewalks have been set back and provisions made
               for parking vehicles across or inside of the usual curbline on any street in the city.

               (b)

               Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, angle parking shall
               not be permitted on any federal-aid or state highway within the city, unless an authorized
               official of the state department of highways and public transportation has determined
               that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering
               with the free movement of traffic.

               (Code 2008, § 71.04)"
Sec. 38-252.,Parking in marked spaces.,"Whenever the city shall have designated the manner in which motor vehicles shall be
               parked on any public street, by marking parking spaces on such streets, it shall be
               unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any such street other than in the manner so
               designated and entirely within the lines of such space.

               (Code 2008, § 71.05)"
Sec. 38-253.,Vehicle owner not to permit parking violations.,"No person shall allow, suffer, or permit any vehicle registered in his name to stand
               or be parked in any street in the city in violation of any of the ordinances of the
               city or laws of the state regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.

               (Code 2008, § 71.06)"
Sec. 38-254.,Impoundment of unlawfully parked vehicle.,"Any vehicle parked in violation of the traffic ordinances of the city at a place where
               parking is prohibited or parking time is limited may be removed and impounded by the
               police department, such removal to be accomplished by an authorized towing service.
               An impounding fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of
               the city council from time to time, plus the towing service charge, shall be assessed
               against and collected from the owner or driver of the vehicle before the release of
               such vehicle. The payment of the impounding fee shall not excuse such owner or driver
               of the vehicle from the charge of violating the ordinance prohibiting or limiting
               parking.

               (Code 2008, § 71.07)"
Sec. 38-255.,On-street parking prohibited.,"The parking of a vehicle on the following streets, or the shoulders, or rights-of-way
               of such streets, is hereby prohibited within the city limits of the city:

                  (1)

                  Both sides of the 200 Block of South Friou Street, between Weaver Avenue and Atchley
                  Avenue.

                  (2)

                  Both sides of Interstate Highway 35 (Business), in its entirety.

                  (3)

                  Both sides of Interstate Highway 35 and its access roads, in their entirety.

                  (4)

                  Both sides of U.S. Highway 67, in its entirety.

                  (5)

                  Both sides of Baugh Street (U. S. Highway 67 Business), in its entirety.

                  (6)

                  The east side of North Cummings Drive, extending 50 feet in both directions from the
                  exit from Alvarado Elementary North.

                  (7)

                  The east side of Patton Street, from Parkway Drive to Glenwood Drive.

                  (8)

                  The north side of Atchley Avenue, extending east from the stop sign at the intersection
                  of South Cummings and Atchley Avenue a distance of 65 feet.

                  (9)

                  Both sides of Village Park Drive, in its entirety.

                  (10)

                  The Westside of Tammy Court.

                  (11)

                  The east and west side of Sunflower Lane from Highway 67 to Prairieland Detention
                  Center.

               (Code 2008, § 71.08; Ord. No. 2001-026, 6-11-2001; Ord. No. 2003-022, 5-19-2003; Ord.
               No. 2005-018, 9-19-2005; Ord. No. 2009-023, § 1, 8-17-2009; Ord. 2012-001, § 1, 1-23-2012;
               Ord. No. 2012-036, § 1, 11-19-2012; Ord. No.
               
                  2014-009
                  
               , § 1, 4-21-2014; Ord. No.
               
                  2015-009
                  
               , § 1, 4-20-2015; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-003
                  
               , § 1, 1-15-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2016-025
                  
               , § 1, 9-19-2016; Ord. No.
               
                  2017-019
                  
               , § 1, 11-21-2017)"
Secs. 38-256—38-273.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,"VEHICLE TOWING, REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT","Footnotes:  --- (7) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Texas Towing Act, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 2308; local regulation of towing,
               V.T.C.A., Occupations Code § 2308.201; Vehicle Storage Facility Act, V.T.C.A., Occupations
               Code ch. 2303."
Sec. 38-274.,Definitions.,"The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of this
               article:

               Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled.

               Owner means a person:

                  (1)

                  Named as the purchaser or transferee in the certificate of title issued for the vehicle
                  under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 501;

                  (2)

                  In whose name the vehicle is registered under V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 502,
                  or a member of the person's immediate family;

                  (3)

                  Who holds the vehicle through a lease agreement;

                  (4)

                  Who is an unrecorded lienholder entitled to possess the vehicle under the terms of
                  a chattel mortgage; or

                  (5)

                  Who is a lienholder holding an affidavit of repossession and entitled to repossess
                  the vehicle.

               Street means any street, alley, public place, square, or highway within the corporate limits
               of the city.

               Tow truck means a motor vehicle, including a wrecker, equipped with a mechanical device used
               to tow, winch, or otherwise move another motor vehicle.

               Tow truck selection form means the form for selection of towing companies, prepared and used as provided in section 38-288.

               Towing company means an individual, association, corporation, or other legal entity that controls,
               operates, or directs the operation of one or more tow trucks over a public roadway
               in this state but does not include a political subdivision of the state.

               Vehicle means a device in, on, or by which a person or property may be transported on a public
               roadway. The term includes an operable or inoperable automobile, truck, motorcycle,
               recreational vehicle, or trailer but does not include a device moved by human power
               or used exclusively on a stationary rail or track.

               (Code 2008, § 72.01)"
Sec. 38-275.,Tow truck to be invited to accident scene; exception.,"No person shall drive a tow truck to or near the scene or sites of an accident or
               collision on the streets of the city, unless such person has been called to the scene
               by the police department of the city, provided that when it is necessary to prevent
               death or bodily injury to any person involved in an accident or collision, any other
               person may summon a tow truck and the prohibition of this section shall be inapplicable.

               (Code 2008, § 72.02)"
Sec. 38-276.,Soliciting business prohibited.,"No person shall solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly, on the streets of the
               city, the business of towing any vehicle which is wrecked or disabled on a public
               street, regardless of whether the solicitation is for the purpose of soliciting the
               business of towing, removing, repairing, wrecking, storing, trading, or purchasing
               said vehicle. Proof of the presence of any person engaged in the towing company or
               the presence of any tow truck or motor vehicle owned or operated by any person engaged
               in the towing company, either as owner, operator, employee, or agent, on any public
               street in the city, at or near the scene or sites of a wreck, accident, or collision
               within one hour after the happening of a wreck, accident, or collision, shall be prima
               facie evidence of a solicitation in violation of this section.

               (Code 2008, § 72.03)"
Sec. 38-277.,Application for placement on rotation list.,"All operators of a towing company desiring to be called for towing service by the
               city police department shall make application, in writing, to the chief of police,
               and upon said application shall list the operator's qualifications and equipment for
               providing said service, provide a copy of insurance policies or a certificate of insurance
               stating coverage, and agree not to charge more than the amounts prescribed in section 38-280 and to abide by the requirements of this article.

               (Code 2008, § 72.04)"
Sec. 38-278.,Inspection by officials; notice to applicants seeking placement on rotation list.,"After application is made, the chief of police shall inspect the equipment of the
               applicant for compliance with the standards and specifications as set out in this
               article. The chief of police shall notify all applicants complying with the provisions
               of this article that their names have been placed on the approval list. Applicants
               not complying with the provisions of this article shall be notified in writing of
               the reasons for the rejection of their applications.

               (Code 2008, § 72.05)"
Sec. 38-279.,Annual requests for placement on rotation list.,"During the month of September each year the tow truck operators in the city desiring
               to have their names retained or placed on the list authorizing them to answer requests
               for towing service by the police department shall make such requests in writing to
               the chief of police.

               (Code 2008, § 72.06)"
Sec. 38-280.,Maximum charges.,"(a)

               Operator agrees to charge no more than the following prices for nonconsent tow services
               within the city (police department calls):

                              Rotation tow

                              Less than 10,000 lbs.

                              $135.00

                              Impound fee

                              20.00

                              Storage fee

                              Storage per day at VSF

                              20.00

                              Rollover light-duty fee for when vehicle is rolled over

                              100.00

                              Underwater recovery

                              150.00

                              No keys

                              No keys available

                              50.00

                              Absorbent

                              Spill cleanup (per bag) plus tax

                              25.00

                              Fire extinguisher

                              Per extinguisher

                              65.00

                              Hybrid recovery

                              1.5 times callout and hourly

                              150%

                              Hybrid transport

                              1.5 times callout and hourly

                              150%

                              Notification fee

                              Notification sent to title and lien holder

                              50.00

               &nbsp;

               (b)

               Any nonconsent tow requiring a heavy-duty wrecker is exempted from the fee schedule
               limitations listed in subsection (a) and instead is subject to the market price (subject
               to limitations established pursuant to state law) that the first responding and reporting
               nonconsent tow operator charges.

               (c)

               Except as provided in subsection (b), no charges shall be made for nonconsent tow
               calls or services within the city except those charges listed in subsection (a). Each
               nonconsent tow operator is required to post a comprehensive list of service rates
               in a public area for customer viewing.

               (Code 2008, § 72.07; Ord. No. 2001-001, 10-23-2000; Ord. No. 2011-022, § 1, 7-18-2011)"
Sec. 38-281.,Insurance.,"All tow truck operators shall carry standard liability insurance in limits as required
               by V.T.C.A., Occupations Code § 2308.103.

               (Code 2008, § 72.08)"
Sec. 38-282.,Minimum equipment.,"All towing equipment operators desiring to be called by the city police department
               shall have the following minimum equipment: two one-ton or larger tow trucks, equipped
               with dolly, winch, line, booster brakes, axe, tow bar, spare chains, blinker lights,
               emergency light, working light, broom, flares, wheel chocks, hydraulic jack, and fire
               extinguisher, in addition to other standard equipment on tow trucks.

               (Code 2008, § 72.09)"
Sec. 38-286.,Rotation list.,"The police department shall maintain a tow truck rotation list in alphabetical order
               which shall contain the names and addresses of each towing service operator who complies
               with the provisions of this article in order that said operator might be called upon
               for towing service by the police department in the absence of an expressed preference
               by the owner or operator of the vehicle requiring assistance. After the operator at
               the top of the list receives a call then that name shall be placed at the bottom of
               the list and the next operator shall be moved to the top of the list and he shall
               receive calls. This process shall be repeated until each operator providing towing
               service under the provisions of this chapter has received calls. The police department
               shall notify each tow truck operator in sufficient time prior to his rendering said
               towing service in order that the operator might adequately provide the necessary persons
               and equipment to answer said calls.

               (Code 2008, § 72.13)"
Sec. 38-287.,Answering calls.,"In the event a towing service operator is requested by the police department to make
               a call and the operator agrees to make said call, then such operator shall proceed
               immediately to the scene where he is directed and shall be given a reasonable length
               of time in which to reach said location. If the towing service operator answering
               said call has not reached said location within a reasonable length of time, then the
               officer at the scene may proceed to call the next towing service operator on the list
               and that operator shall have priority in that particular call. In the event that the
               towing service operator called fails to comply with the provisions of this section
               by proceeding to the designated place within the time specified above, then this towing
               service operator shall be removed from the top of the list and placed at the bottom
               of the list. This section shall not apply where the operator's name at the top of
               the list is called and he advises the officer requesting the towing service that he
               will be unable to make said call nor will it apply where there has been a delay caused
               by some act or commission of another person other than the tow truck operator or his
               employees or by an act of God.

               (Code 2008, § 72.14)"
Sec. 38-290.,Police prohibited from influencing selection of tow truck.,"No police officer shall, directly or indirectly, either by word, gesture, sign, or
               otherwise, recommend to any person the name of any particular person engaged in the
               towing service or repair business nor shall any police officer influence or attempt
               to influence in any manner the decision of any person in choosing or selecting a towing
               or repair service.

               (Code 2008, § 72.17)"
Sec. 38-288.,Tow truck selection form.,"(a)

               Content of form. The chief of police shall develop a tow truck selection form which shall:

               (1)

               Contain a statement by the owner of the disabled vehicle designating in blank spaces
               therein the towing company (a company authorized under this chapter to engage in the
               towing company) which he desires to remove the disabled vehicle and the place to which
               he desires said vehicle removed;

               (2)

               Contain a list of charges authorized by this chapter for rotation operators;

               (3)

               Contain a statement authorizing any police officer to call the designated towing company
               to remove the disabled vehicle;

               (4)

               Contain a statement in the alternative that the owner has no preference as to a towing
               company and authorizes any police officer to call the towing service under contract
               to the city and that he desires the vehicle to be removed to the place designated
               by him in the blank spaces therein; and

               (5)

               Provide space for signature of the owner of the vehicle.

               (b)

               Use of form.

               (1)

               When a police officer investigating an accident determines that any vehicle involved
               in an accident or collision upon a public street is unable to proceed safely under
               its own power, or when the owner thereof is physically unable to drive such vehicle,
               such officer shall request the owner to designate on a tow truck selection form the
               towing company the owner desires to remove the vehicle. Such designation by the owner
               shall be indicated on said form and when completed shall be signed by the owner. The
               police officer shall give a copy of the authorization thus made on the form to the
               owner and shall retain for record the original thereof. Upon leaving duty on the same
               day, the police officer shall place such original in a well-bound book in the police
               department provided for that purpose.

               (2)

               When the owner has designated the towing company desired, the police officer shall
               communicate the fact immediately to police department headquarters and it shall be
               the duty of the officer receiving such information at headquarters to call the designated
               company to send a tow truck to the scene of the accident or collision.

               (Code 2008, § 72.15)"
Sec. 38-289.,Tow truck used in absence of designation.,"If the owner of a disabled vehicle involved in an accident or collision fails or refuses
               to designate a towing company, or if it becomes necessary to have an abandoned or
               untended vehicle removed from public or private property, the investigating officer
               shall cause the towing company then first on the rotation list maintained by the city
               for such service to be summoned to provide such service.

               (Code 2008, § 72.16)"
Sec. 38-320.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Antique auto means a passenger car or truck that is at least 25 years old.

               Auto salvage business means a place where one or more units of inoperative motor vehicles are kept for
               the purpose of storage or sale of all or the parts thereof of such inoperative motor
               vehicle.

               Auto salvage dealer means any person which engages in the business of disassembling any type of motor
               vehicle for the purpose of sale of said vehicle or of any part therefrom.

               Junked vehicle means a vehicle that is self-propelled and:

                  (1)

                  Does not have lawfully attached to it:

                  a.

                  An unexpired license plate; and

                  b.

                  A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate; and

                  (2)

                  Is:

                  a.

                  Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled, or discarded; or

                  b.

                  Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:

                  1.

                  72 consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public property; or

                  2.

                  30 consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private property.

               Motor vehicle means any motor vehicle or self-propelled vehicle subject to registration pursuant
               to the Texas Certificate of Title Act, as amended.

               (Code 2008, § 110.01)"
Sec. 38-321.,License required.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of an auto salvage dealer
               within the city or to continue in such business unless and until he shall have first
               obtained a license under this section and sections 38-322 through 38-325.

               (b)

               Any auto salvage business in the city that does not conform with the regulations imposed
               in this article is declared to be a public nuisance.

               (c)

               No license shall be required of an individual collecting, storing, dismantling, or
               refurbishing antique autos for his own use in order to restore, preserve, and maintain
               an antique motor vehicle for historic interest rather than for personal transportation.

               (Code 2008, § 110.02)"
Sec. 38-322.,Application for license.,"Any person desiring to engage in the business of auto salvage dealer shall make application
               for a license on forms furnished by the city secretary, which shall contain the following
               information:

                  (1)

                  The name and address of applicant; if the applicant is a partnership, the names and
                  addresses of all partners; if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses
                  of all officers of such corporation.

                  (2)

                  The location of the business proposed to be licensed hereunder and a description of
                  said property by metes and bounds.

                  (3)

                  Such other information as may be required by the city secretary.

               (Code 2008, § 110.03)"
Sec. 38-323.,Investigation.,"Applications for a license to engage in the business of auto salvage dealer shall
               be referred to the city council which shall make the following findings:

                  (1)

                  All agents or officers of the applicant who will take part in the operation of such
                  business are capable of operating the business in a manner consistent with the public
                  health, safety, and morals, and that neither the applicant nor any person associated
                  therewith have ever been convicted of any felony crime.

                  (2)

                  That any proposed or existing buildings or equipment with which such business is being
                  operated or is to be operated conform to the requirements of the building code, other
                  applicable ordinances of the city, and this Code.

                  (3)

                  That the proposed or existing premises and equipment upon which such business is being
                  or is to be operated conform to the requirements of all applicable health regulations
                  of the city and state.

                  (4)

                  That the proposed or existing premises and equipment upon which such business is being
                  or is to be operated conform to the requirements of all applicable fire prevention
                  regulations of the city and state.

               (Code 2008, § 110.04)"
Sec. 38-324.,Public hearing on application.,"A public hearing will be held to gather public comment on the application. The hearing
               will be held after due notice is given by regular mail to all persons owning property
               within 200 feet of such proposed location and notice is published in a newspaper of
               general circulation more than ten days prior to such hearing.

               (Code 2008, § 110.05)"
Sec. 38-325.,Issuance of license.,"If the findings required in sections 38-323 through 38-324 are favorable to applicant, the city secretary shall notify applicant that such license
               will be issued upon payment of the prescribed fees. If any of said findings are unfavorable
               to applicant, the city secretary shall notify applicant that such license is disapproved
               and that no license will be issued. Upon request from the applicant, the city secretary
               will provide the applicant with a written statement of the grounds upon which the
               application was disapproved.

               (Code 2008, § 110.06)"
Sec. 38-326.,Transfer of license.,"The license issued under section 38-325 shall not be transferred or assigned to any other person unless and until the proposed
               assignee has met all the requirements of sections 38-322 through 38-324 the same as if such assignee were an original applicant.

               (Code 2008, § 110.07)"
Sec. 38-327.,Content of license.,"Licenses issued hereunder shall not be used in any location other than the one described
               in the application upon which it is issued and shall state on its face the following:

                  ""This license applies only to the premises indicated herein and authorizes the licensee
                  to operate an auto salvage business in a lawful place and manner only; it is not a
                  substitute for any certificate of occupancy, building permit, or other certificate
                  or permit that may be required by law of the licensee, and it does not relieve the
                  licensee of the responsibility of having all such permits or certificates at all times
                  and to comply with all laws affecting the business licensed hereby.""

               Said license shall further state on its face the date of its issuance and the date
               of its expiration.

               (Code 2008, § 110.08)"
Sec. 38-328.,Fees.,"To defray the expense of administration of these provisions, the fees, as currently
               established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to
               time, are established.

               (Code 2008, § 110.09)"
Sec. 38-329.,General operating requirements.,"The following regulations shall apply to all auto salvage businesses in the city and
               it shall be unlawful to operate such businesses in any manner except in accordance
               with these regulations:

                  (1)

                  The license issued pursuant to section 38-325 shall be plainly displayed on the business premises.

                  (2)

                  The premises upon which such auto salvage business is operated shall be maintained
                  in a sanitary condition.

                  (3)

                  No space not covered by this license shall be used in the auto salvage business.

                  (4)

                  No water shall be allowed to stand on the premises in such a manner as to afford a
                  breeding place for mosquitoes.

                  (5)

                  Weeds and vegetation, other than trees and decorative shrubbery, shall be kept at
                  a height of not more than six inches.

                  (6)

                  No garbage or other waste liable to give off a noxious odor or attract vermin shall
                  be kept on the premises nor shall any refuse of any kind be kept on the premises,
                  unless such refuse is salvageable parts in use in the auto salvage business.

                  (7)

                  No junk, parts, or salvage shall be allowed to rest upon or protrude over any public
                  street, walkway, or curb, or become scattered or blown off the premises.

                  (8)

                  Automobiles shall not be stacked upon one another and shall be kept and maintained
                  at all times in rows not exceeding two automobiles in depth. Such rows shall be a
                  minimum of 20 feet apart, so as to provide accessibility for firefighting and other
                  safety purposes.

                  (9)

                  No combustible materials of any kind not necessary to the licensed business shall
                  be kept on the premises nor shall the premises be allowed to become a fire hazard.

                  (10)

                  No burning of any material shall be allowed on the premises.

                  (11)

                  The area on the premises where the auto salvage business is conducted shall be enclosed,
                  except for entrances and exits, with a nontransparent vertical wall or fence of a
                  minimum height of six feet measured from ground level. Entrances and exits shall not
                  be wider nor more numerous than reasonably necessary for the conduct of said business.
                  All such entrances and exits shall be covered with paving of a type of material approved
                  by the city.

                  (12)

                  The licensee shall permit inspections of the business premises by any representative
                  of the city at any reasonable time.

                  (13)

                  No auto salvage dealer licensed hereunder or his agent or employee shall purchase
                  or receive any merchandise for use in the licensed business without a written evidence
                  of such transaction stating with particularity the merchandise received, its serial
                  number if available, and a brief written description. The person from whom such material
                  is purchased shall be described by name, address, and driver's license number or date
                  of birth. Such written evidence of transaction shall be held available for inspection
                  by any representative of the city for a period of at least six months after said transaction.

                  (14)

                  No auto salvage business premises shall be allowed to become a nuisance, public or
                  private, nor shall any such premises be operated in such a manner as to become injurious
                  to the health, safety, or welfare of the community or of any residents in close proximity
                  thereto.

                  (15)

                  No motor vehicle may be dismantled, wrecked, or parted out unless the owner or operator
                  of said auto salvage business has:

                  a.

                  A certificate of title;

                  b.

                  A certificate of authority to demolish;

                  c.

                  A police sales receipt; or

                  d.

                  A transfer document issued by the state department of labor and standards or other
                  authorized agency of the state.

                  (16)

                  No person operating an auto salvage business shall store or keep discarded motor vehicles
                  or parts thereof, waste, junk, tires, or tire carcasses in stacks or piles exceeding
                  six feet in height or 625 square feet in floor or lot area. An aisle of at least ten
                  feet shall be maintained at all times between such piles or stacks of motor vehicles
                  and parts thereof, waste material, junk, tire or tire carcasses, or parts thereof.

                  (17)

                  Gasoline or other fuel shall be drained from fuel tanks of all inoperative motor vehicles
                  or other self-propelled vehicles stored or kept on the premises of an auto salvage
                  business, unless such vehicles are capable of being removed from the premises under
                  their own power.

                  (18)

                  No automobile salvage business, wrecking yard, or junkyard shall be operated in violation
                  of the provisions of V.T.C.A., Transportation Code ch. 391 adopting the Federal Highway
                  Beautification Act.

               (Code 2008, § 110.10)"
Sec. 38-330.,Revocation or suspension of license.,"The city council may revoke or suspend the license of any auto salvage dealer licensed
               hereunder at any time upon finding that:

                  (1)

                  The auto salvage dealer or any officer or agent of such dealer who takes part in the
                  operation of the licensed business is not capable of operating such business in a
                  manner consistent with the public's health or safety or has been convicted of any
                  felony crime;

                  (2)

                  There has been a failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter or of the provisions
                  of any national, state, or local laws applicable to the premises, equipment, or operation
                  of such licensed business;

                  (3)

                  The licensee has obtained such license through fraud or misstatement;

                  (4)

                  The licensed business is being conducted in a manner detrimental to the health, safety,
                  or general welfare of the public, or is a nuisance, or is being carried on in an unlawful
                  manner; or

                  (5)

                  The licensed business is suspended or has been inactive for a period of 12 consecutive
                  months.

               (Code 2008, § 110.11)"
Sec. 38-331.,Declaration of public nuisance.,"Any inoperative motor vehicle or parts thereof which are visible from a public place,
               public right-of-way, or property of another within the city shall be deemed to be
               a public nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to maintain
               such a public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, partially dismantling, rendering
               inoperable, abandoning, or discarding a motor vehicle on the real property of another
               or suffer, permit, or allow any inoperative motor vehicle or part thereof to be left,
               parked, or maintained on his own real property for the purposes of resale of the parts
               thereof without compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter. Failure
               to comply with the terms of this article shall be deemed to constitute a public nuisance.

               (Code 2008, § 110.12)"
Chapter 40,UTILITIES,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               V.T.C.A., Utilities Code ch. 1 et seq.; jurisdiction and powers of municipality over electric utilities, V.T.C.A.,
               Utilities Code ch. 33; water and utilities, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code ch. 401 et seq.; charges by
               city to utility companies for use of public ways, V.T.C.A., Tax Code § 182.025."
ARTICLE I.,IN GENERAL,NULL
Sec. 40-1.,Provisions applicable to all users.,"The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons provided utility services
               by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 51.01)"
Sec. 40-2.,Enforcement.,"Except where other arrangements are specifically provided, it shall be the duty of
               the director of public works or his authorized agent to enforce the provisions of
               this chapter.

               (Code 2008, § 51.02)"
Sec. 40-11.,Water and sewer tap fees required.,"The city shall install and maintain water and sewer service connections in the streets,
               alleys, and easements, and shall charge for the installation of all such connections.
               No tap fee charge shall be made for connections to the main installed by a developer.
               Water and sanitary sewer connection fees shall be paid to the city at the time application
               is made for each service installation as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (Code 2008, § 51.20)"
Sec. 40-12.,Meter deposits.,"A water meter deposit shall be paid to the city at the time application is made for
               each service connection as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution
               of the city council from time to time.

               (Code 2008, § 51.21)"
Sec. 40-3.,Application required.,"(a)

               Any person who moves into any premises shall file an application for water and sewer
               service in accordance with the rules and requirements of the city before using any
               water from the service connections for such premises.

               (b)

               If any customer shall change his place of residence or business, he shall, within
               48 hours after such change, give notice of such change to the water commission of
               the city.

               (c)

               Where an application is accepted for water service, it shall be considered the bona
               fide residence or place of business of the applicant. Should water or sewer be disconnected
               for the nonpayment of bills or for other violations of this chapter, no new application
               will be accepted from the owner, agent, or any other person to continue service in
               such place or any other place under any other name, so long as such place or any other
               place is occupied by the original applicant as the bona fide resident or place of
               business of same, until after all bills and penalties, damages to waterworks equipment,
               or other service charges have been paid in full or some form of agreement has been
               reached.

               (d)

               Should any person move into any premises supplied with water from the city mains,
               without making an application in the manner provided for by the city, such person
               shall become responsible for all water used from the date of the last payment made
               on such account previous to his occupying said premises, and the failure to pay same
               shall be cause for disconnecting such service until the amount due is paid.

               (Code 2008, § 51.03; Ord. No. 99-020, 3-8-1999; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-024
                  
               , § 1, 11-19-2018)"
Sec. 40-4.,Users liable for bills.,"(a)

               Where there are different consumers liable for water or sewer charges, and where one
               or more consumers so liable leave such premises, such consumers so leaving shall not
               be supplied with water at the new premises occupied by them until all accounts due
               by such persons shall have been paid. Where any consumer is liable to the city for
               such charges at one place and is thereafter located using water at some other place,
               the water shall be turned off at the new location until all valid accounts past due
               are paid.

               (b)

               Where two or more families or unrelated individuals occupy the same house or apartment,
               and the water or sewer account is in the name of one family or unrelated individual,
               if the one in whose name the account stands moves away, the remaining family or unrelated
               individual is also responsible for the unpaid water or sewer bills.

               (Code 2008, § 51.04)"
Sec. 40-5.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               Ord. No.
               
                  2018-024
                  
               , § 1, adopted November 19, 2018, amended the Code by repealing former § 40-5 in its
               entirety. Former § 40-5 pertained to the prohibition of service to other premises
               when an account is delinquent; and derived from the Code of 2008, § 51.05."
Sec. 40-6.,Right of entry.,"A duly authorized representative and/or agent of the city, bearing proper credentials
               and identification, shall have the right at all reasonable times to go upon privately
               owned property for the purpose of inspection of water service lines or mains and sewer
               connections and drains and all other related lines or equipment. Upon refusal of the
               right to make such inspections, any duly authorized representative and/or agent of
               the city shall have the right to disconnect from such privately owned property all
               city sewer and water connections.

               (Code 2008, § 51.06)"
Sec. 40-7.,False statements in application.,"(a)

               If any person shall make false statements in the application for water or sewer service,
               he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

               (b)

               Any consumer who discontinues his place of business or moves from his residence and
               leaves a bill for water service or any other services due the city and makes application
               for service at some other address, either under his own name or under a different
               name, without stating to the city the old address and name under which water or sewer
               services were used at the address where there is a bill due, shall be guilty of a
               misdemeanor.

               (Code 2008, § 51.07)"
Sec. 40-8.,Tampering with lines.,"Any person who shall tamper with, alter, change, bypass, divert, or connect to any
               water or sewer mains or service lines owned by the city without first obtaining permission
               or consent of said city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

               (Code 2008, § 51.08)"
Sec. 40-9.,Taps to be made by city personnel.,"All sewer and water taps will be made by city personnel, after all application forms
               have been completed and required fees paid.

               (Code 2008, § 51.09)"
Sec. 40-10.,Out-of-city services.,"The city is not required to furnish water or sewer services to consumers beyond the
               corporate limits, or to continue to supply, once begun, such services. The city reserves
               the right to provide services to such consumer it deem advisable and to, at any time,
               wholly or partially, discontinue such water and sewer services to any consumers located
               outside the corporate limits of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 51.10)"
Sec. 40-13.,Minimum qualifications for residential water utility account holders.,"(a)

               No water utility shall be furnished to a residence unless the applicant is:

               (1)

               Living;

               (2)

               Residing at the proposed residential service address; and

               (3)

               At least 18 years of age.

               (b)

               A residential water utility account shall be terminated unless at all times during
               the pendency of the account, the account holder is:

               (1)

               Living;

               (2)

               Residing at the residential service address; and

               (3)

               At least 18 years of age.

               (c)

               The requirement that an applicant or account holder reside at the residential service
               address shall not apply where the applicant or account holder notifies the city in
               writing that the subject residence is unoccupied and the residence is and continues
               to be unoccupied.

               (Ord. No. 2013-035, § 1, 8-19-2013; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-024
                  
               , § 1, 11-19-2018)

            Editor's note— 
               Ord. No.
               
                  2018-024
                  
               , § 1, adopted November 19, 2018, amended the Code by repealing former § 40-13 in
               its entirety, and renumbering former § 40-14 as a new § 40-13. Former § 40-13 pertained
               to a required utility service deposit; and derived from the Code of 2008, § 51.22."
Secs. 40-14—40-44.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,WATER,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Secs. 40-45—40-61.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 2.,WATERWORKS REGULATIONS,NULL
Sec. 40-62.,City's obligation to furnish water; inability to supply water to patrons.,"(a)

               The city is not required to furnish water of any special or specific analysis or in
               any special or specified amount but only undertakes to furnish such water and amount
               of water that may be supplied from the wells of the city, or such other sources as
               the city may select, and in an amount within the capacity of the city's pumping plants
               and storage facilities.

               (b)

               If an accident impedes the city's ability to supply water to its patrons or to the
               municipality for the prevention or suppression of fire, the city will not be liable
               for damages by reason of any such failure to any patron of the water system, or to
               any person whose property may have been destroyed by fire or otherwise damaged.

               (Code 2008, § 51.60)"
Sec. 40-63.,Out-of-city water services.,"If any person or business entity located outside the city limits desires city water
               service and pays all expenses incurred in extending the water mains and secures all
               necessary easements, so the city incurs no expense in such connection, and the city
               elects to provide such water service to such patron, and provided all mains and lines
               installed shall meet the requirements and approval of the director of public works,
               then such patron shall be furnished water at a rate of 150 percent of the in-city
               rate.

               (Code 2008, § 51.61)"
Sec. 40-64.,Waste of water.,"In case of willful or unreasonable waste of water by any patron, the city shall have
               the right to cut off the water supply and recover all damages. Such action of cutting
               off the water supply may be taken by the director of public works at any time after
               he shall learn of said waste.

               (Code 2008, § 51.62)"
Sec. 40-65.,Regulations affecting connections to system.,"All connections to the city waterworks system within the corporate limits shall be
               made in the following manner:

                  (1)

                  It shall be the policy of the city to supply water to its patrons through mains owned
                  or controlled by the city and which shall be located in the streets, between the curb
                  and sidewalk lines, or in alleys adjacent to property being served, or on easements
                  controlled or owned by the city.

                  (2)

                  The city may assess the estimated cost of breaking and replacing pavement necessary
                  to make such connection, in addition to the regular service connection charge, such
                  assessment to be paid with such service charge, and the difference between assessment
                  and actual cost of such breaking and replacing shall be refunded to the patron when
                  such work has been completed.

                  (3)

                  In addition to the above charges, the city may assess the estimated cost of boring
                  under or crossing over any street or highway in furnishing water services.

                  (4)

                  All lines constructed and meters installed under the provisions of this section shall
                  be the property of the city and the city shall have full control and jurisdiction
                  over such lines and meters.

               (Code 2008, § 51.63)"
Sec. 40-66.,Turning on or off at meter.,"No person except authorized employees of the utility commission shall turn water on
               or off at the stopcock in the meter box without a written permit first being obtained
               from the utility commission.

               (Code 2008, § 51.64)"
Sec. 40-67.,Bypassing meter.,"No person shall interfere with or bypass the city's meter in such a manner as to obtain
               water without the full amount thereof being registered on such meter. Service shall
               be permanently disconnected from any account where a bypass or other such device is
               discovered. Such account shall be reconnected only at the discretion of the city and
               only after payment for water used, as estimated by the city, at twice the rate otherwise
               applicable plus the cost of rerouting and repairing the service to register water
               use properly on the meter.

               (Code 2008, § 51.65)"
Sec. 40-68.,Damage to meter.,"Service will be discontinued to any account where any meter or other city water equipment
               is damaged. Service will not be reconnected until all damage is paid for and all outstanding
               bills are paid.

               (Code 2008, § 51.67)"
Sec. 40-69.,Secondary taps prohibited.,"No patron of the waterworks system shall permit any person to tap any water pipe leading
               into his premises without the consent of the city council. Owners or occupants of
               premises having service pipes and connections will be held strictly responsible for
               all uses of water from such service by other parties.

               (Code 2008, § 51.68)"
Sec. 40-70.,Dual connections prohibited.,"Dual connections (more than one user on a single meter) shall be prohibited.

               (Code 2008, § 51.69)"
Sec. 40-71.,Patron responsible for service line condition and water usage.,"Water consumers shall keep their own service pipe lines and apparatus in good repair
               and condition and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. No claim shall be
               made against the city by reason of breakage of any service pipe or service cock, or
               from any damage by reason of shutting off the water to repair mains, or for other
               purposes, and in case of negligence or refusal to promptly repair any imperfection
               in the service pipes, lines, stops, or other fixtures, the director of public works
               may cause the same to be done at the expense of the owner, which expense shall be
               paid to the city before water service is returned to the patron.

               (Code 2008, § 51.70)"
Sec. 40-72.,Fire hydrant use restricted.,"Every hydrant placed for the purpose of extinguishing fires is hereby declared to
               be a public hydrant and no person, other than members of the fire department, the
               state department of health, and those authorized by the director of public works shall
               open any such hydrant or draw or attempt to draw water from same or in any manner
               interfere with said hydrants.

               (Code 2008, § 51.71)"
Sec. 40-73.,Access to meter.,"If easy access to a meter is obstructed by a patron or if entrance to the premises
               is made dangerous by a vicious dog or otherwise, thereby preventing a meter reader
               from obtaining a meter reading, the charges may be estimated for the amount not to
               exceed double the normal charge. If the patron does not remedy the condition or should
               he refuse to pay the estimated bill, the city shall have the right to discontinue
               water service without further notice and service shall not be resumed until the obstructive
               and/or dangerous conditions have been remedied and all charges for water service paid.

               (Code 2008, § 51.72)"
Sec. 40-74.,Inaccurate metering.,"If a meter fails to register the water actually consumed by reason of the meter being
               out of order, the city may estimate the charge by the customary consumption of the
               patron, taking into consideration the season of the year.

               (Code 2008, § 51.73)"
Sec. 40-75.,Temporary service interruptions.,"The city reserves the right to temporarily discontinue and to reconnect water supply
               to all consumers, without notice, for the purpose of making repairs, connections,
               extensions, and cleaning of mains, machinery, reservoir, or any part of the city water
               and sewer department property.

               (Code 2008, § 51.74)"
Secs. 40-76—40-93.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,METERS,NULL
Sec. 40-199.,Definitions.,"(a)

               Terms. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and phrases,
               as used in this division shall have the meanings designated in this section.

               Approval authority means the director in an NPDES state with an approved state municipal water pollution
               control and abatement program.

               Authorized representative of a significant waste discharger means an authorized representative may be:

                  (1)

                  A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-president, if the discharger
                  is a corporation;

                  (2)

                  A general partner or proprietor if the discharger is a partnership or proprietorship,
                  respectively;

                  (3)

                  A duly authorized representative responsible for the overall operation of the facilities
                  from which the discharger originates.

               Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
               under standard laboratory conditions for five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed
               in terms of weight and concentrations (milligram per liter or mg/l).

               Board means the Texas Water Development Board.

               Building sewer means a sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to the POTW (also
               called house lateral and house connection).

               Categorical standards means national categorical pretreatment standards or treatment standards.

               Commission means the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.

               Control authority refers to the approved authority, defined above, or the director of public works.

               Control manhole means a manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point before the building
               sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.

               Control point means a point of access to a course of discharge before the discharge mixes with
               other discharges in the public sewer.

               Cooling water means the water discharged from any use such as air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration,
               or to which the only pollutant added is heat.

               Direct discharge means the discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly to the waters of
               the state.

               Director of public works means the person designated by the city to supervise the operation of the utilities
               commission and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter,
               or his duly authorized representative.

               Environmental protection agency, or EPA means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may
               also be used as a designation for the administrator or other duly authorized official
               of said agency.

               ETJ refers to extraterritorial jurisdiction.

               Grab sample means sample which is taken from a waste stream or surface runoff on a one time basis
               with no regard to the flow in the stream and without consideration of time.

               Holding tank means any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
               septic tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.

               Indirect discharge means the discharge or introduction of nondomestic pollutants from any source regulated
               under section 307(B) or (C) of (33 USC 1317) into the POTW or waters of the State
               of Texas.

               Industrial user means a source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a discharge of pollutants
               under regulations issued pursuant to section 402 of 33 USC 1342.

               Milligrams per liter (mg/l) means a weight to volume ratio; the mg/l value multiplied by the factor 8.34 shall
               be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.

               National pollution discharge elimination system or NPDES permit means a permit issued pursuant to section 402 of 33 USC 1342.

               National prohibitive discharge standard or prohibitive discharge standard means any regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) of 33 USC 1342 40 CFR,
               section 403.5 of S.B. No. 835.

               Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake, or other body of surface water
               or groundwater.

               Normal domestic wastewater means wastewater excluding industrial wastewater discharged by a person into sanitary
               sewers and in which the average concentration of total suspended solids is not more
               than 250 mg/l and BOD is not more than 250 mg/l.

               Overload means the imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment facility in excess
               of its engineered design capacity.

               pH means the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen
               ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.

               Pollutant means any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sludge,
               mutations, chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked
               or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural
               waste discharged into water.

               Pollution means the manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological,
               and radiological integrity of water.

               Pretreatment or treatment means the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of pollutants, or
               the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or the alteration of this nature of pollutant
               properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging
               or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW or the waters of the state.

               Publicly owned treatment works (POTW) means sewers or other conveyances and treatment plants.

               Significant waste dischargers means any discharger discharging 25,000 gallons or more per day (24-hour period),
               has a waste toxic pollutant as defined pursuant to section 307 of 33 USC 1292 or state
               statutes and rules, and is found by the city, state control agency, or the U.S. Environmental
               Protection Agency, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
               other contributing industries on the waters of the State of Texas.

               Slug means any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial waste which in concentration
               of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
               longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flows
               during normal operation.

               Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) means a classification pursuant to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual
               issued by the executive officer of the President, Office of Management and Budget,
               1972.

               Stormwater means any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation and
               resulting therefrom.

               Suspended solids means solids measured in mg/l that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension
               in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which are largely removable by a laboratory
               filtration device.

               Toxic pollutant means any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic in regulations promulgated
               by the administration of the EPA under the provisions of the CWA 307(a) or other acts.

               Trap means a device designed to skim, settle, or otherwise remove grease, oil, sand, flammable
               wastes, or other harmful substances.

               Wastewater means the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from dwellings, commercial
               buildings, industrial facilities, and stormwater that may be present, whether treated
               or untreated, which is permitted to enter the POTW or waters of the State of Texas.

               Wastewater facilities means all facilities for collection, pumping, treating, and disposing of wastewater
               and industrial wastes.

               Wastewater treatment plant means any city-owned facilities, devices, and structures used for receiving, processing,
               and treating wastewater, industrial waste, and sludges from the sanitary sewers.

               Waters of the state means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs,
               reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
               accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private,
               which are contained within, or flow through or border upon the state or any portion
               thereof and including any other water as defined by V.T.C.A., Water Code § 26.001.

               (b)

               Abbreviations.

                              BOD

                              Biochemical oxygen demand

                              CFR

                              Code of Federal Regulations

                              COD

                              Chemical oxygen demand

                              EPA

                              Environmental Protection Agency

                              l

                              liter

                              mg/l

                              milligrams per liter

                              NPDES

                              National pollutant discharge elimination system

               &nbsp;

               (Code 2008, § 51.100)"
Sec. 40-216.,Reports of investigations.,"All reports of investigations of water pollution incidents should be completed promptly.
               The report should include appropriate descriptions, sample data, maps, photographs,
               etc., to accurately and fully depict: The waste generating activities or the incident
               in which a spill occurred.

               (Code 2008, § 51.118)"
Secs. 40-217—40-240.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Minimum standards of sanitation and health protection measures, V.T.C.A., Health and
               Safety Code ch. 341; local regulation of sanitation, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code
               ch. 342; Solid Waste Disposal Act, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 361; municipal
               solid waste, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 363; litter, V.T.C.A., Health and
               Safety Code ch. 365."
Sec. 40-94.,Meter reread procedures and fees; testing of meter.,"(a)

               A water system customer believing a water meter reading to be inaccurate may request
               a rereading. The person requesting a water meter to be reread will be charged a fee
               as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
               from time to time. If the city is in error in the original reading or if the meter
               is tested and found to register more than the warranty of the meter manufacturer,
               the fee shall be refunded to the customer and appropriate adjustment in the water
               service charge shall be made.

               (b)

               Should a customer demand that a meter be tested for accuracy, he shall make a deposit
               equal to the amount the city must pay to have the meter tested. If the test shows
               that the meter is registering within the warranty of the meter manufacturer or registering
               less water than is actually used, the deposit shall become the property of the city;
               otherwise, the deposit shall be refunded to the user.

               (c)

               If the meter has been misread or the meter is found to register more than the warranty
               of the meter manufacturer, billings will be adjusted to reflect the inaccuracy. Adjustments
               shall be limited to the previous three billing periods.

               (d)

               If a customer has unusually high consumption during a billing period, the customer
               may request a mapping of their water meter to determine when the high consumption
               occurred. One mappings per calendar year will be allowed for each meter, free of charge.
               Any additional mappings will be charged a $25.00 fee.

               (Code 2008, § 51.80; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-021
                  
               , § 1, 10-15-2018)"
Sec. 40-95.,Lead banned.,"The following provisions apply to the use of lead in plumbing:

                  (1)

                  The use of pipes and pipe fittings that contain more than 8.0 percent lead, or solders
                  and flux that contain more than 0.2 percent lead are prohibited in the following circumstances:

                  a.

                  For installation and repair of any public water supply; and

                  b.

                  For installation or repair of plumbing in a residential or nonresidential facility
                  providing water for human consumption and connected to a public drinking water supply
                  system.

                  (2)

                  This requirement will be waived for lead joints that are necessary for repairs to
                  cast iron pipe.

               (Code 2008, § 51.81)"
Sec. 40-96.,Physical connection between water and sewer lines prohibited.,"No physical connection shall be made between a drinking water supply and a sewer line.
               Any appurtenance shall be designed and constructed so as to prevent any possibility
               of sewage entering the drinking water system.

               (Code 2008, § 51.82; Ord. No. 2001-002, 4-9-2001)"
Sec. 40-97.,"Backflow, siphonage.","(a)

               No water connection from any public drinking water supply system shall be made to
               any establishment where an actual or potential contamination or system hazard exists
               without an air gap separation between the drinking water supply and the source of
               potential contamination. The containment air gap is sometimes impractical and, instead,
               reliance must be placed on individual internal air gaps or mechanical backflow prevention
               devices. Under these conditions, additional protection shall be required at the meter
               in the form of a backflow prevention device (in accordance with AWWA Standards C510
               and C511, and AWWA Manual M14) on those establishments handling substances deleterious
               or hazardous to the public health. The water purveyor need not require backflow protection
               at the water service entrance if an adequate cross connection control program is in
               effect that includes an annual inspection and testing by a certified backflow prevention
               device tester. It will be the responsibility of the water purveyor to ensure that
               these requirements are met.

               (b)

               No water connection from any public drinking water supply system shall be made to
               any condensing, cooling or industrial process or any other system of non-potable usage
               over which the public water supply system officials do not have sanitary control,
               unless the said connection is made in accordance with the requirements of subsection
               (a) of this section. Water from such systems cannot be returned to the potable water
               supply.

               (c)

               Overhead bulk water dispensing stations must be provided with an air gap between the
               filling outlet hose and the receiving tank to protect against backsiphonage and cross-contamination.

               (d)

               The use of a backflow prevention device at the service connection shall be considered
               as additional backflow protection and shall not negate the use of backflow protection
               on internal hazards as outlined and enforced by the plumbing code.

               (Code 2008, § 51.83; Ord. No. 2001-022, 4-9-2001)"
Sec. 40-98.,"Backflow prevention assembly testing, record retention.","(a)

               All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon installation by a recognized
               backflow prevention assembly tester and certified to be operating within specifications.
               Backflow prevention assemblies which are installed to provide protection against high
               health hazards must also be tested and certified to be operating within specifications
               at least annually by a recognized backflow prevention device tester.

               (b)

               Recognized testers shall have completed a commission-approved course on cross connection
               control and backflow prevention and pass an examination if administered by the TNRCC
               or its designated agent. The accredited tester classification shall be broken down
               into two categories, as follows:

               (1)

               The general tester is qualified to test and repair backflow prevention assemblies
               on any domestic, commercial, industrial, or irrigation service.

               (2)

               The fireline tester is qualified to test and repair backflow prevention assemblies
               on firelines only. The state fire marshal's office requires that a person performing
               maintenance on firelines must be employed by an approved fireline contractor.

               (c)

               Individuals that can show proof of completion of a course and passage of an exam based
               on the ABPA or ASSE National exam, prior to the effective date of these regulations,
               may be recognized as accredited for the term of current certification (not to exceed
               three years).

               (d)

               Gauges used in the testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested for accuracy
               annually in accordance with the University of Southern California's Foundation of
               Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research and/or the American Waterworks Association
               Manual of Cross Connection Control (Manual M-14). Public water systems shall require
               testers to include test gauges serial numbers on test and maintenance report forms
               and ensure testers have gauges tested for accuracy.

               (e)

               A test report must be completed by the recognized backflow prevention assembly tester
               for each assembly tested. This signed and dated original must be submitted to the
               public water supplier for recordkeeping purposes. Should the tester choose to use
               a report format which differs from that found herein, it must minimally contain all
               information required by the report form.

               (f)

               Test and maintenance reports shall be retained for a minimum of three years. The city
               must provide these records to TNRCC staff for inspection upon request.

               (g)

               All backflow prevention assembly testers must annually register with the city. A person
               commits an offense if the person repairs or tests the installation or operation of
               backflow prevention assemblies without first registering the service with the city.
               Registration shall be on forms provided by the city and shall, at a minimum, include:

               (1)

               A copy of the applicant's current certification issued by the state commission on
               environmental quality, pursuant to 30 TAC § 30.51;

               (2)

               The business name, telephone number, and address of applicant;

               (3)

               Proof of the applicant's general liability insurance coverage;

               (4)

               A copy of the applicant's calibration report; and

               (5)

               An annual registration fee in the amount of $100.00.

               The registration requirements of this section are hereby declared to be necessary
               to protect the public health of the community and are hereby made applicable to all
               persons who currently repair or test the installation or operation of backflow prevention
               assemblies in the city. All persons who currently repair or test the installation
               or operation of backflow prevention assemblies within the city shall have 30 days
               from the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived to register
               with the city, in accordance with this section. Registration in each subsequent year
               is required no later than January 31st of each year.

               (Code 2008, § 51.84; Ord. No. 2001-022, 4-9-2001; Ord. No. 2013-041, § 1, 9-16-2013)"
Sec. 40-99.,"Drinking water, hauling tanks.","Connections for filling and emptying drinking water hauling tanks shall be properly
               protected to prevent the possible entrance of contamination. These opinions must be
               provided with caps and keeper chains.

               (Code 2008, § 51.85; Ord. No. 2001-022, 4-9-2001)"
Sec. 40-100.,Customer service inspections.,"(a)

               A customer service inspection certification shall be completed prior to providing
               continuous water service to new construction, on any existing service when the water
               purveyor has reason to believe that cross connections or other potential contaminant
               hazards exist, or after any material improvement, correction, or addition to the private
               water distribution facilities.

               (b)

               Individuals with the following credentials shall be recognized as capable of conducting
               a customer service inspection certification:

               (1)

               Plumbing inspectors and water supply protection specialists licensed by the state
               board of plumbing examiners.

               (2)

               Certified waterworks operators and members of other water-related professional groups
               who have completed a training course, passed an examination administered by the commission
               or its designated agent, and hold an endorsement granted by the commission or its
               designated agent.

               (3)

               Licensed plumbers may perform customer service inspections on single-family residential
               services.

               (c)

               As potential contaminant hazards are discovered, they shall be promptly eliminated
               to prevent possible contamination of the water supplied by the public water system.
               The existence of a serious threat to the integrity of the public water supply shall
               be considered sufficient grounds for immediate termination of water service. Service
               can be restored only when the source of potential contamination no longer exists,
               or until sufficient additional safeguards have been taken.

               (d)

               Copies of properly completed inspection certifications must be kept on file by the
               water purveyor and made available, upon request, for commission review. These certifications
               shall be retained for a minimum of ten years. If the certification form provided in
               30 TAC § 290.47(d) is not used, the inspection certifications must minimally include
               the name and registration number of the inspector, the type of registration (plumbing
               inspectors, water supply protection specialists, certified operator, etc.), and be
               dated and signed. It must also certify that:

               (1)

               No direct connection between the public drinking water supply and a potential source
               of contamination exists. Potential sources of contamination are isolated from the
               public water system by an air gap or an appropriate backflow prevention assembly in
               accordance with commission regulations. See section 40-97, pertaining to backflow siphonage.

               (2)

               No cross connection between the public drinking water supply and a private water source
               exists. Where an actual air gap is not maintained between the public water supply
               and a private water supply, an approved reduced pressure-zone backflow prevention
               assembly is properly installed and a service agreement exists for annual inspection
               and testing by a recognized backflow prevention assembly tester. See section 40-98, pertaining to recognized backflow prevention assembly tester.

               (3)

               No connection exists which would allow the return of water used for condensing; cooling
               or industrial processes back to the public water supply.

               (4)

               No pipe or pipe fitting which contains more than 8.0 percent lead exists in private
               water distribution facilities installed on or after July 1, 1988.

               (5)

               No solder or flux which contained more than 0.2 percent lead exists in private water
               distribution facilities installed on or after July 1, 1988.

               (e)

               These customer service inspection requirements are not considered acceptable substitutes
               for and shall not apply to the sanitary control requirements stated in 30 TAC § 29.0115(5).

               (f)

               A customer service inspection is an examination of the private water distribution
               facilities for the purpose of providing or denying water service. This inspection
               is limited to the identification and prevention of cross connections, potential contaminant
               hazards and illegal lead materials. The customer service inspector has no authority,
               and no obligation, beyond the scope of these regulations. A customer service inspection
               is not a plumbing inspection as defined and regulated by the Texas State Board of
               Plumbing Examiners (TSBPE). A customer service inspector is not permitted to perform
               plumbing inspections. State statute and TSBPE adopted rules that require TSBPE licensed
               plumbing inspectors to perform plumbing inspections of all new plumbing and alterations
               or additions to existing plumbing within the municipal limits of all cities, towns,
               and villages with 5,000 or more inhabitants, or within smaller like entities which
               have adopted the plumbing license law by ordinance. The customer service inspection
               shall be performed by the plumbing inspector as a part of this more comprehensive
               plumbing inspection.

               (Code 2008, § 51.86)"
Sec. 40-102.,"Backflow prevention devices; installing, testing.","Every commercial water customer with an actual or potential contamination or system
               hazard without an air gap separation between the drinking water supply and the source
               of potential contamination, and every customer with a sprinkler system connected to
               the public drinking water system shall, at his own expense, install and maintain a
               backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of section 40-98. Such devices must be tested at least annually and the results reported as required
               by section 40-98.

               (Code 2008, § 51.88; Ord. No. 2001-038, 8-14-2001)"
Secs. 40-103—40-132.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 4.,WATER CONSERVATION,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            State Law reference— 
               Water conservation advisory council, V.T.C.A., Water Code ch. 10; water conservation, V.T.C.A., Health and Safety Code ch. 373."
Sec. 40-133.,Authorization.,"The mayor is authorized to declare that a shortage of water exists in the city at
               any time that in his opinion the unrestrained use of water will create a danger to
               the water supply of the city, and during such times he may designate when water may
               be used by customers and for what purpose.

               (Code 2008, § 51.50)"
Sec. 40-134.,Notice requirements.,"Notice of such restricted use of water shall be given by publication in the official
               newspaper of the city one time, by posting notices at three places in the city, or
               by actual notice to any person by an officer of the city.

               (Code 2008, § 51.51)"
Sec. 40-135.,Outside watering.,"All persons are prohibited from using water in the city for the purpose of watering
               lawns and flowers and washing automobiles and trucks when the mayor has declared that
               a shortage of water exists, except that the mayor may designate certain hours when
               certain groups of persons may use water for the above purposes during the existence
               of a shortage of water.

               (Code 2008, § 51.52)"
Secs. 40-136—40-139.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 5.,DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR A RETAIL PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER,NULL
Sec. 40-140.,"Declaration of policy, purpose, and intent.","In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the integrity of water
               supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water use, sanitation, and
               fire protection, and to protect and preserve public health, welfare, and safety and
               minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortage or other water supply emergency
               conditions, the city hereby adopts the following regulations and restrictions on the
               delivery and consumption of water.

               Water uses regulated or prohibited under this drought contingency plan (the plan)
               are considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times of water
               shortage or other emergency water supply condition are deemed to constitute a waste
               of water which subjects the offender(s) to penalties in section 40-149 of this plan.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-141.,Public involvement.,"Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of the plan was provided
               by the city water department by means of public hearing at the regular council meeting
               held on May 21, 2012.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-142.,Public education.,"The city will periodically provide the public with information about the plan, including
               information about the conditions under which each stage of the plan is to be initiated
               or terminated and the drought response measures to be implemented in each stage. This
               information will be provided by means of utility bill inserts, and will be posted
               on the city's website.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-146.,Definitions.,"For the purposes of this plan, the following definitions shall apply:

               Aesthetic water use. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as fountains, reflecting pools,
               and water gardens.

               Commercial and institutional water use. Water use which is integral to the operations of commercial and non-profit establishments
               and governmental entities such as retail establishments, hotels, and motels, restaurants,
               and office buildings.

               Conservation. Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the consumption of water,
               reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency in the use of water or increase
               the recycling and reuse of water so that a supply is conserved and made available
               for future or alternative uses.

               Customer. Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the city.

               Domestic water use. Water use for personal needs or for household or sanitary purposes such as drinking,
               bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or for cleaning a residence, business, industry,
               or institution.

               Even number address. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route numbers ending in 0, 2, 4,
               6, or 8 and locations without addresses.

               Industrial water use. The use of water in processes designed to convert materials of lower value into
               forms having greater usability and value.

               Landscape irrigation use. The use of water for the irrigation and maintenance of landscaped areas, whether
               publicly or privately owned, including residential and commercial lawns, gardens,
               golf course, parks, and right-of-way and medians.

               Non-essential water use. Water uses that are neither essential nor required for the protection of public,
               health, safety, and welfare, including:

                  (1)

                  Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields, and golf courses,
                  except otherwise provided under this plan;

                  (2)

                  Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer, airplane or other
                  vehicle;

                  (3)

                  Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
                  courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;

                  (4)

                  Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes other than immediate
                  fire protection;

                  (5)

                  Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any gutter or street;

                  (6)

                  Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor swimming pools or jacuzzi-type
                  pools;

                  (7)

                  Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes except where necessary
                  to support aquatic life;

                  (8)

                  Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period after having been
                  given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and

                  (9)

                  Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other purposes other than
                  fire fighting.

               Odd numbered address. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route numbers ending in 1, 3, 5,
               7, or 9.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-148.,Water allocations.,"In the event that water shortage conditions threaten public health, safety, and welfare,
               the city manager is hereby authorized to allocate water when stage IV conditions are
               met according to the following plan:

               Single-family residential customers. The allocation to residential customers residing in a single-family dwelling shall
               be: 8,000 gallons per month.

               Single-family dwelling means the residential premises secured by the customer's meter.

               A surcharge of $6.00/1,000 gallons of water shall be charged for each 1,000 gallons
               of water used over the allocation. This fee is additional to the current water rate
               structure and shall be considered cumulative.

               Multi-family residential customers. The allocation to multi-family dwelling units (apartments, mobile home parks, etc.)
               where more than one dwelling unit is metered shall be: 6,000 gallons per month per
               dwelling unit.

               A dwelling unit may be claimed under this provided whether it is occupied or not.

               A surcharge of $6.00/1,000 gallons of water shall be charged for each 1,000 gallons
               of water used over the allocation. This fee is additional to the current water rate
               structure and shall be considered cumulative.

               Commercial customers. The allocation for each commercial customer shall be based on: 75 percent of customers
               12-month average.

               A commercial customer's usage is based on the average of the previous 12 months. If
               billing history is shorter an average of the monthly usage is used to decide the allocation.

               A surcharge of $6.00/1,000 gallons of water shall be charged for each 1,000 gallons
               of water used over the allocation. This fee is additional to the current water rate
               structure and shall be cumulative.

               A customer may appeal an allocation as established under this plan to the city manager.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-247.,Collection of charges.,"The charges fixed herein for the collection, removal, and disposal of all garbage
               and/or trash shall be entered in their respective amounts on the utility bill. The
               city may discontinue all utility services, including water, sewer, and garbage and
               trash services, for failing to pay any such assessed charges and until such charges
               have been paid in full, under conditions and procedures detailed in sections 40-283 through 40-286.

               (Code 2008, § 50.07)"
Sec. 40-248.,Procedure for reporting noncollection.,"Every customer is required to maintain supervision and surveillance over garbage and
               trash containers on his premises and to call the city contractor if such customer
               has not received scheduled service. If after having been timely placed for collection,
               the containers are not collected or emptied and the contents removed, as may be applicable,
               and after the city contractor has been contacted within 24 hours of scheduled collection,
               the customer shall notify the city by calling city hall and reporting the noncollection.

               (Code 2008, § 50.08; Ord. No. 90-002, 2-12-1990)"
Sec. 40-149.,Enforcement.,"No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from the city for
               residential, commercial, governmental, or any other purpose in a manner contrary to
               any provision of this plan, or in an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought
               response stage whereas allocation of use was established at the time pursuant to action
               taken by the city manager, or his/her designated in accordance with provisions of
               this plan.

               Any person who violates this plan shall be given a written notice of first offense,
               (i.e., warning citation) any subsequent violation is considered a misdemeanor and
               upon conviction shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more
               than $500.00. Each day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
               If a person is issued three or more citations for violations to the plan the city
               manager shall upon due notice to customer, be authorized to discontinue water service.
               Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only upon payment
               of a reconnection charge, hereby established at $150.00, and any other costs incurred
               by the city in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurance must be given
               to the city manager that the same action shall not be repeated while the plan is in
               effect. Compliance with this plan may also be sought through injunctive relief in
               the district court.

               Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the city, in apparent
               control of the property where a violation occurs or originates shall be presumed to
               be the violator. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of their
               minor children, whereas a violation committed by a child occurred on the property
               within the parent's control.

               A police officer or code enforcement officer may issue a citation to person he/she
               reasonably believes to be in violation of this division. The citation shall be prepared
               in duplicate and shall contain the name and address of the alleged violator, if known,
               the offense charged, and shall direct him/her to appear in the municipal court on
               the date shown on the citation.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Sec. 40-150.,Variances.,"The city manager, or his/her designee, may, in writing, grant temporary variance for
               existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan if it is determined that
               failure to grant such variance would cause an emergency condition adversely affecting
               the health, sanitation, or fire protection for the public or the person requesting
               such variance and if one or more of the following conditions are met:

                  (1)

                  Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished during the duration of
                  the water supply shortage or other condition for which the plan is in effect.

                  (2)

                  Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same level if reduction
                  in water use.

               Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this plan shall file a petition
               for variance with the city within five days after the plan or a particular drought
               response stage has been invoked. All petitions for variances shall be reviewed by
               the city manager, or his/her designee, and shall include the following:

                  (1)

                  Name and address of the petitioner(s).

                  (2)

                  Purpose of water use.

                  (3)

                  Specific provision(s) of the plan from which the petitioner is requesting relief.

                  (4)

                  Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the plan adversely affects
                  the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the petitioner or others if petitioner
                  complies with this plan.

                  (5)

                  Description of the relied requested.

                  (6)

                  Period of time for which the variance is sought.

                  (7)

                  Alternative water use restrictions or other measures that petitioner is taking or
                  proposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and the compliance date.

                  (8)

                  Other pertinent information.

               Variances granted by the city shall be subject to the following conditions, unless
               waived or modified by the city manager or his/her designee:

                  (1)

                  Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.

                  (2)

                  Variances granted shall expire when the plan is no longer in effect, unless the petitioner
                  has failed to meet specified requirements.

               No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of the plan occurring
               prior to the issuance of the variance.

               (Ord. No. 2012-012, § 1, 5-21-2012)"
Secs. 40-151—40-153.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,SEWERS,NULL
DIVISION 1.,GENERALLY,NULL
Secs. 40-154—40-174.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 40-176.,Sewer service required; exceptions.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or premises within
               the city to inhabit, use, or permit anyone else to inhabit or use, said building or
               premises unless said building or premises is connected with the sanitary sewer system
               of the city or a septic tank system built according to the specifications of the state
               department of health and the city.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to install or use a septic tank for private waste
               disposal within the city limits, except when the structure to be served is more than
               150 feet from a public sewer main line and approval to use a septic tank is specifically
               granted by the city council.

               (c)

               The owner of any property containing a structure used for human occupancy, employment,
               recreation, or other purpose in which human waste is generated shall be required to
               connect to the city sanitary sewer system if a public sewer is available within 150
               feet of such structure.

               (Code 2008, § 51.91)"
Sec. 40-177.,Service connections.,"Each property owner shall install a sanitary sewer service line at his expense to
               the city's lateral, in accordance with regulations and subject to the inspection of
               the city. Each property owner shall thereafter maintain the sewer line to and including
               the ""Y."" Should the city's inspection reveal a fault or other deficiency in the line
               the property owner shall repair the line, at his own expense, within 60 days of receipt
               notice from the city directing such repair.

               (Code 2008, § 51.92; Ord. No. 2002-043, 8-26-2002)"
Sec. 40-178.,Septic tank requirements.,"Any septic tank shall be installed in compliance with the provisions of the most recent
               edition of the Construction Standards for On-Site Sewage Facilities as published by
               the Texas Department of Health.

               (Code 2008, § 51.93)"
Sec. 40-179.,Stoppage or obstruction of sewer system.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit into the building drainage system or
               sewer any ashes, cinders, rags, poisonous or explosive liquids, gases, oils, grease
               or any other material which would or could obstruct, damage, or overload such system
               or sewer.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or premises to use,
               or permit anyone else to use, said building or premises unless said building or premises
               shall be connected to a water supply sufficient to ensure that sewer pipes will be
               kept free from accumulation of select materials and obstructions.

               (Code 2008, § 51.94)"
Sec. 40-200.,Water pollution control duties of city.,"(a)

               The city hereby establishes a water pollution control and abatement program. The city
               shall employ or retain an adequate number of personnel, on either parttime or fulltime
               basis as the needs and circumstances of the city may require, who by virtue of their
               training or experience are qualified to perform the water pollution and abatement
               functions required to enable the city to carry out its duties and responsibilities
               under this article.

               (b)

               The water pollution control and abatement program of this city shall encompass the
               entire city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction to achieve the objectives of the
               city for the area within its territorial jurisdiction. The city shall include in the
               program the services and functions, which in the judgment of the city or as may be
               reasonably required by state or federal law, will provide effective water pollution
               control and abatement for the city, including the following services and functions:

               (1)

               The development and maintenance of an inventory of all significant waste discharges
               into or adjacent to the water within the city, and its extraterritorial jurisdiction
               without regard to whether the discharges are authorized by the commission;

               (2)

               The regular monitoring of all significant waste discharges included in the inventory
               prepared pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section;

               (3)

               The collecting of samples and conducting of periodic inspections and tests of the
               waste discharges being monitored to determine whether the discharges are being conducted
               in compliance with the act and any applicable permits, orders, or regulations of the
               commission, and whether they should be covered by a permit from the commission;

               (4)

               In cooperation with the commission, a procedure for obtaining compliance by the waste
               dischargers being monitored, including where necessary the use of legal enforcement
               proceedings; and

               (5)

               The development and execution of reasonable and realistic plans for controlling and
               abating pollution or potential pollution resulting from generalized discharges of
               waste which are not traceable to specific sources, such as, storm sewer discharges
               and urban runoff from rainwater.

               (Code 2008, § 51.101)"
Sec. 40-281.,Water and sewer rate schedule.,"Monthly rates and charges for water and sewer services furnished by the city shall
               be as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
               from time to time.

               (Code 2008, § 51.30; Ord. No. 2011-027, § 1, 8-15-2011)"
Sec. 40-282.,Charges to accrue.,"All rates and charges for services to consumer's premises shall accrue and be charged
               against the consumer until such time as notice is given to the office of the city
               secretary by the consumer or consumer's authorized agent to discontinue services to
               the consumer's premises.

               (Code 2008, § 51.31)"
Sec. 40-201.,Stormwaters and other unpolluted drainage.,"(a)

               No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water,
               groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or unpolluted industrial process waters
               to any sanitary sewer.

               (b)

               Stormwaters and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as
               are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the
               director of public works. Unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval
               of the director of public works to a storm sewer or natural outlet, or into the sanitary
               sewer system upon prior written approval of the director of public works.

               (c)

               If the director of public works determines that the character of the wastewater from
               any manufacturer or industrial plant, building, or other premises is such that it
               will damage the system or cannot be treated satisfactorily in the system, the director
               of public works shall have the right to prevent it from entering the system.

               (Code 2008, § 51.103)"
Sec. 40-202.,Prohibited discharges.,"Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
               into the sewer or drainage system of the city, or to the waters of the state, directly
               or indirectly, any of the following described matters, water, or wastes:

                  (1)

                  Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or explosive liquid,
                  solid, or gas.

                  (2)

                  Concentrations exceeding 100 mg/l of wax, fats, grease, oil, plastic, or other substances
                  which will solidify or become discernibly viscous at any temperature between 32 degrees
                  Fahrenheit and 150 degrees Fahrenheit.

                  (3)

                  Any materials that have not been properly treated or any other solid or viscous substances
                  in quantities capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or interfering
                  with proper operation of the treatment plant or to the waters of the state, including
                  but not limited to such materials as ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, wood shavings,
                  sawdust, metal shavings, and filings, glass, rags, tar, lime slurry or residues, paint
                  and chemical residues, bulk solids, glue, or paper for other than hygiene tissue.
                  Discharges prohibited by this provision include but are not limited to inert suspended
                  solids greater than 250 mg/l, dissolved solids greater than 500 mg/l, materials that
                  produce excessive discoloration, and materials which cause BOD, COD, or chlorine demand
                  in excess of designed plant capacity.

                  (4)

                  Any feathers, entrails, feet, bones, paunch manure, hair, fleshing, or egg shells,
                  whole blood, or other liquids in quantities which exert an unusual oxygen or chlorine
                  requirement or which result in discoloration of the treatment plant influent.

                  (5)

                  Any substance which singly or by interaction with other waste can form a gas or material
                  which by itself or in combination with other substances can be a hazard to life.

                  (6)

                  Any liquids with a pH value lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or any other corrosive
                  property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel
                  at the wastewater facilities.

                  (7)

                  Any cyanides or cyanogen compounds capable of liberating hydrocyanic gas or acidification
                  in excess of one mg/l as CN.

                  (8)

                  Any fluoride in concentration exceeding that in the public water supply.

                  (9)

                  Any salts of the following heavy metals, in solution or suspension, at a concentration
                  greater than as shown below:

                                 mg/l
                                 
                                 (not to exceed)

                                 Arsenic

                                 0.5

                                 Barium

                                 5.0

                                 Boron

                                 1.0

                                 Cadmium

                                 0.02

                                 Chromium

                                 5.0

                                 Copper

                                 1.0

                                 Lead

                                 0.1

                                 Manganese

                                 1.0

                                 Mercury

                                 0.005

                                 Nickel

                                 1.0

                                 Selenium

                                 0.02

                                 Silver

                                 0.1

                                 Zinc

                                 5.0

                  &nbsp;

                  (10)

                  All other heavy metals and toxic materials, in solution or suspension, at concentrations
                  greater than that in the public water supply, such as but not limited to the following:

                                 Antimony

                                 Beryllium

                                 Bismuth

                                 Cobalt

                                 Herbicides

                                 Fungicides

                                 Pesticides

                                 Molybdenum

                                 Rhenium

                                 Strontium

                                 Tellurium

                                 Uranylion

                  &nbsp;

                  (11)

                  Chlorides in concentrations exceeding 250 parts per million, unless the discharge
                  of chlorides in concentrations higher than 250 parts per million is limited to rates
                  and volumes that will not cause the concentration of chlorides in the treated effluent
                  from the sewage treatment plant to exceed 250 parts per million.

                  (12)

                  Any radioactive wastes of greater concentration or amount than the allowable releases
                  specified by regulatory agencies which control the possession and release of radioactive
                  materials.

                  (13)

                  Any active or inert materials in concentrations which interfere with the proper operation
                  of the treatment process to the degree that the normal treatment process used will
                  not produce an effluent meeting the criteria of regulatory agencies or which impose
                  unusual costs for treatment or maintenance.

                  (14)

                  No substances, or mixtures which may contain any amount of polychlorinated biphenyls
                  (PCPS).

                  (15)

                  Wastewater with a phenol concentration greater than two milligrams per liter.

                  (16)

                  Wastewater which contains more than five-tenths milligrams per liter of hydrogen sulfide.

                  (17)

                  Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to
                  such degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
                  treatment facilities exceeds the limits established by the approving authority for
                  such materials.

                  (18)

                  Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees Fahrenheit or any substances
                  which causes the temperature of the total wastewater treatment plant influent to increase
                  at a rate of ten degrees Fahrenheit or more per hour, or a combined total increase
                  of plant influent temperature to 110 degrees Fahrenheit.

                  (19)

                  Substances that may deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
                  clog the sewers, overload skimming and grease handling equipment, pass to the receiving
                  waters without being effectively treated by normal wastewater treatment processes
                  due to the nonamenability of the substance to bacterial action, or deleteriously affect
                  the treatment process due to excessive quantities.

                  (20)

                  Substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and facilities
                  employed or are amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment plant
                  effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharge
                  to the receiving waters.

               (Code 2008, § 51.104)"
Sec. 40-203.,Application to discharge industrial wastes.,"Where the operation of a person entails the discharge of industrial wastes, a written
               statement on a standard form provided by the city, setting forth the nature of the
               operation contemplated or presently carried on shall be filed with the city secretary.
               The statement shall contain the following information:

                  (1)

                  Name and address of applicant;

                  (2)

                  Type of industry;

                  (3)

                  Quantity of plant waste;

                  (4)

                  Typical analysis of the waste;

                  (5)

                  Type of pretreatment proposed, if any;

                  (6)

                  Proposed point of discharge.

               Within 30 days of receipt of such statement, it shall be the duty of the director
               of public works to make an order stating such minimum restrictions as in the judgment
               of the director may be necessary to adequately guard against unlawful uses of the
               city's sewage works or discharge to the waters of the state.

               (Code 2008, § 51.105)"
Sec. 40-204.,"Grease, oil, and sand interceptors.","(a)

               Grease and oil interceptors shall be installed and properly operated and maintained
               in all food service establishments where preparation of food occurs on the premises.
               All costs incurred for such installation, maintenance, operation, and, if necessary,
               the modification of such interceptors shall be the responsibility of the owner.

               (1)

               Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in accordance
               with city standards and shall be of a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons unless otherwise
               determined by the director of public works or the director's designee. If necessary
               due to expansion of the use of the property or revision of applicable regulations
               or and discharge standards, the owner of a food service establishments shall modify
               such grease and oil interceptor to remain in compliance with this section and any
               other regulations and discharge standards.

               (2)

               The owner of the food service establishment shall be responsible for the installation,
               operation, maintenance and, if necessary, the modification of the grease and oil interceptor
               to be in compliance with all applicable laws and discharge standards. Required maintenance
               shall include, but are limited to, the following:

               a.

               Regularly scheduled pumping or cleaning of the interceptor by a licensed waste hauler
               at least once every 90 days and at all other times as necessary to prevent the clogging
               of city sewer line and overloading of the interceptor.

               b.

               Regular inspection of the interceptor to ensure proper operation.

               c.

               Sample and test discharge from interceptor on at least an annual basis, or as determined
               necessary by the director of public works or the director's designee. BOD and TSS
               limits must be below 300 parts per million. Oil and grease (O&amp;G) limits must be below
               200 mg/L.

               d.

               Within 15 days of pumping or cleaning, as required by this subsection (1), provide
               the city a written record signed by the licensed waste hauler containing at a minimum
               the following information:

               1.

               Volume of grease disposed.

               2.

               Date of disposal.

               3.

               Location of the disposal site.

               e.

               Whenever modifications are required, plans and specifications must be submitted to
               the director of public works for approval within 30 days from the date such modifications
               are ordered or become necessary. No construction shall commence until the director
               of public works or the director's designee approves the plans and specifications in
               writing and any required permits obtained. The owner must complete the necessary modifications
               as approved within 90 days from the date of approval.

               (b)

               Sand interceptors must be installed and properly operated in all establishments when
               required by the latest edition of the international plumbing code adopted by the city.
               The design and construction of any sand interceptor must be submitted to the director
               of public works for approval. No construction shall commence until the director of
               public works or the director's designee approves the plans and specifications in writing
               and any required permits obtained. The owner must complete the necessary construction
               as approved within 90 days from the date of approval. Operations on the property shall
               not commence until the construction is certified as complete and approved by the director
               of public works or the director's designee, unless the director or the director's
               designee authorizes otherwise in writing.

               (1)

               Sand interceptor shall have a minimum capacity of 1,000 gallons unless otherwise determined
               by the director of public works.

               (2)

               Sand interceptors shall be pumped out 100 percent at least once a year and at all
               other times as determined necessary to maintain their effectiveness. Additional pumping
               may be required if it is determined to be detrimental to the sanitary sewer system.

               (c)

               Violation of this section or any other rules and regulations governing installation
               or operation of grease, oil, and sand interceptors is punishable by a fine of not
               more than $500.00. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.

               (d)

               Upon violation of this section or any other rules and regulations governing installation
               or operation of grease, oil, and sand interceptors, the director of public works or
               the director's designee may also suspend the delivery of water service to the property
               or suspend the certificate of occupancy for the property, or both, which suspension
               shall continue until the owner provides the director of public works with written
               documentation establishing that the violation has been corrected. The owner or operator
               of the property may appeal such suspension in writing by submitting a written appeal
               explaining why such suspension is alleged to be unjustified to the city secretary
               within ten days following such suspension. The appeal shall be heard by the city manager
               as soon as practical. The city manager shall rule on such appeal based on the written
               documentation submitted by the owner or operator of the property, the city's file,
               and, at the city manager's discretion, any oral evidence submitted by either the owner
               or operator and the director of public works or the director's designee the decision
               of the city manager shall be final.

               (Code 2008, § 51.106; Ord. No. 2003-006, 12-16-2002; Ord. No. 2010-002, § 1, 2-15-2010;
               Ord. No. 2013-042, § 1, 9-16-2013; Ord. No.
               
                  2015-013
                  
               , § 1, 6-8-2015)"
Sec. 40-205.,Discharges subject to review; pretreatment.,"Where necessary in the opinion of the director of public works, the owner shall provide,
               at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:

                  (1)

                  Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids
                  to 300 parts per million by weight;

                  (2)

                  Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
                  provided in this chapter; or

                  (3)

                  Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.

               Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary
               treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the director of public
               works and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals
               are obtained in writing.

               (Code 2008, § 51.107)"
Sec. 40-206.,Control manholes.,"When required by the director of public works, the owner of any property carrying
               industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to
               facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
               required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
               with city standards. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
               shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.

               (Code 2008, § 51.108)"
Sec. 40-207.,Testing standards established.,"All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
               to which reference is made in sections 40-202(b)(3) and 40-205 shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for Examination of Water
               and Sewage. The tests shall be performed on the samples taken at the control manhole
               provided for in section 40-206.

               (Code 2008, § 51.109)"
Sec. 40-208.,Agreements for industrial waste treatment.,"No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any agreement
               or arrangements between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial
               waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
               subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern for any portion of the excess
               cost to the city of handling and treating such industrial wastes. In the event the
               city agrees to accept and treat industrial waste of unusual strength or character,
               the charges for such treatment shall be determined as part of the agreement.

               (Code 2008, § 51.110)"
Sec. 40-209.,Industrial waste surcharge.,"(a)

               Any person discharging other than normal sewage or industrial waste shall pay a monthly
               surcharge to the city, which charge shall be in addition to monthly sewer service
               charges. Computations of surcharges shall be based on the following formula:

               C = D × (BA − BN) + (SA − SN) × F × V

               Where:

               C = Surcharge to user in dollars to be added to monthly billing for water and sewer
               services

               D = Unit cost of treatment = $0.092

               BA = BOD of the discharge

               BN = Normal BOD (225 mg/l)

               SA = Total suspended solids

               SN = Normal total suspended solids (250 mg/l)

               F = Factor converting mg/l to pounds/gallon (8.345)

               V = Monthly volume in million gallons

               (b)

               A person determined to be discharging waste in violation of this article, other than
               excessive BOD or suspended solids, shall compensate the city for the cost of sampling
               and laboratory service expense required for monitoring the discharges until such time
               as the discharged waste is in compliance with the provisions of this article. The
               approving authority shall determine the number of samples and the frequency of sampling
               necessary to maintain surveillance of the discharges.

               (c)

               A person discharging concentrations for BOD and suspended solids in excess of normal
               domestic wastewater concentrations shall compensate the city for the cost of sample
               collections and laboratory service necessary when an industrial waste surcharge rate
               is established each year.

               (Code 2008, § 51.111)"
Sec. 40-210.,Powers and authority of enforcing agents.,"The director of public works and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
               proper credentials and identifications shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
               for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling, and testing in
               accordance with the provisions of this section.

               (Code 2008, § 51.112)"
Sec. 42-30.,C-2 general commercial district.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-31.,M-1 light manufacturing/industrial district.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-32.,M-2 heavy manufacturing/industrial district.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-33.,CBD central business district.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-34.,I institutional district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The I district is an overlay zone that is intended to provide for uses of a generally
               noncommercial institutional and/or group quarters character. Such uses typically involve
               densities or arrangements which are not permitted by right in low and medium density
               residential areas but which often have residential characteristics or have symbiotic
               relationships with residential neighborhoods. The I district is approved as a prefix
               on other zoning districts to allow in appropriate circumstances for institutional
               type uses that are typically regulated by state or federal law.

               (b)

               When a zoning district is overlayed with the I institutional prefix, buildings or
               land may be used for the following uses, in addition to those uses allowed in the
               underlying zoning district:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              Civic center

                              10 spaces plus 1 space for each 300 square feet of floor area in excess of 2,000 square
                              feet. In an auditorium is included as part of the building, its floor area shall be
                              deducted from the total and additional parking provided on the basis of 1 space for
                              each 4 seats that it contains

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, public or private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Construction yard (temporary)

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the area

                              Dormitory

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Field or sales office, temporary

                              1 space per employee

                              Garage, private

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the garage

                              Hospital (acute care)

                              1 space for every 2 beds

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Library

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Mobile food vendor

                              0 spaces

                              Museum or art gallery

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Parking lot or parking garage, automobile

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space per vehicle to be parked

                              Retirement housing

                              1 space for each 6 beds per unit

                              Rodeo arena and grounds

                              1 space for every 4 seats or bench seating

                              School, commercial

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              School, private (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, public (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, trade

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              School, trade or commercial

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the I district when authorized under the
               provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Exhibition area

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 2 patrons based on maximum patron load

                              Fairgrounds

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 2 patrons based on maximum patron load

                              Fraternal organization, lodge or civic club

                              1.25 spaces per 200 square feet

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Heliport or heliatop

                              1 space if located on the ground

                              Household care facility

                              1 space per employee

                              Household care institution

                              1 space per employee

                              Prison, jail or place of incarceration

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 200 square feet of visitor floor area

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Racetrack

                              1 space for every 4 seats or bench seating

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur or commercial. (See further regulations
                              in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Vendor, stationary

                              1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area

               &nbsp;

               (d)

               Site plan required. A site plan, meeting the requirements of section 42-56, site plan requirements, shall be required for each development application for any
               permitted use in the I district.

               (e)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              None

                              Minimum lot width:

                              60 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              80 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              25/35/linear feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum side yard:

                              Footnote 13/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              Footnote 18

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              None

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              NA

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

               (f)

               Development criteria. Unless otherwise specifically provided in this section, every use, or any part thereof,
               that is not conducted within a building completely enclosed on all sides shall be
               enclosed within a wall or fence a minimum of six feet and a maximum of ten feet in
               height. Such wall or fence shall completely screen all operations conducted within
               such wall or fence from observation. No exterior storage area shall encroach into
               any of the required yards. All outside storage shall be placed upon an all-weather
               hard surface. The screening requirements set forth above shall not apply to:

               (1)

               Off-street parking of motor vehicles in operable condition;

               (2)

               Off-street loading; and

               (3)

               Permitted display of merchandise for sale to the public.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 40-211.,Penalties for violations.,"(a)

               Any person found to be violating any provisions of this article shall be served by
               a city written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
               time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall within the
               period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. If the offender
               continues violation after the expiration of time stated, the director of public works
               may prohibit the further use of the sewage system by the offender and may remove or
               close the offender's sewage and water connections.

               (b)

               Any person who shall continue any violations beyond the time limit provided for in
               subsection (a) of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which
               such violations exist shall be deemed a separate offense.

               (c)

               Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to
               the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city for reason of such
               violation.

               (Code 2008, § 51.113)"
Sec. 40-212.,Enforcement procedures by city.,"The following steps shall be taken when water pollution is detected by the city:

                  (1)

                  A letter shall be sent by the city to the alleged offender to notify that:

                  a.

                  Discharge of wastewaters within his property appears to be in violation of law or
                  the rules of the state water commission.

                  b.

                  The city requests that the alleged violator take immediate steps to correct the alleged
                  violation.

                  c.

                  The alleged violator shall respond to the city within ten days regarding proposed
                  action to be taken to correct the alleged violation.

                  (2)

                  If the alleged violator finds from his evaluation that he is in violation of law or
                  of the rules of the state water commission, he may submit an application for a waste
                  discharge permit for the consideration of the city and the state water commission,
                  together with a time schedule for compliance.

                  (3)

                  A copy of the letter giving notice of the alleged violation described under subsection
                  (a) of this section shall be sent to the state water commission. Investigation reports
                  and names of witnesses which are available at that time shall be attached to the letter.

                  (4)

                  The city shall continue investigation and testing procedures as it feels is necessary
                  to show whether a violation exists.

                  (5)

                  The city may oppose the granting of a waste discharge permit, or may recommend partial
                  granting of such. The city may also sue the alleged polluter for violations which
                  occurred when the polluter had no waste discharge permit.

                  (6)

                  If the alleged violator is not willing to take effective steps to control his pollution
                  sources, the responsible city authority shall send a letter to the city attorney with
                  a request for his consideration of the information which is enclosed. All investigation
                  reports which have been completed against the alleged violator and lists of witnesses
                  which may be used in the prosecution of a lawsuit, and all test information should
                  be included. A copy of this letter and attachments shall be sent to the state water
                  commission.

                  (7)

                  When the local government files suit in district court pursuant to section 26.124
                  of the state water code, the state commission of water resources is a necessary and
                  indispensable party and must be served with citation.

                  (8)

                  Information to be furnished to the city attorney in cases where suit is desired by
                  the city shall include:

                  a.

                  Metes and bounds description of real estate, together with ownership, volume, and
                  page number and copy of latest conveyance unto owner.

                  b.

                  A plan, map, and aerial photograph of property in question, if available.

                  c.

                  Names and addresses of all persons in possession; operators, and owners.

                  d.

                  A copy, or original, of the city's file dealing with the situation and problem.

                  e.

                  Transcript of hearing, if any.

                  f.

                  Witnesses: names, addresses and statements.

                  g.

                  Copies of reports by experts and investigators.

                  h.

                  Copy of all waste discharge permits, if any.

                  i.

                  City's order requesting the city attorney to file and recommendations.

                  j.

                  Name and phone number of personnel who will be working with the city attorney on the
                  case.

                  k.

                  Other information and results of investigations such as photographs, samplings, measurements
                  taken from testing devices or manually, diagrams, models, etc.

               (Code 2008, § 51.114)"
Sec. 40-241.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Brush means tree and shrub trimmings which are not easily placed in disposable containers.

               Commercial means any premises where garbage and trash is generated from any activity other than
               domestic residential use or from a customary home occupation.

               Debris means dirt, concrete, rocks, bricks, or other waste building materials.

               Disposable container means any plastic bag or cardboard box having no outside dimension of more than four
               feet and capable of containing garbage or trash without leaking or emitting odors
               and which weighs, when loaded, less than 50 pounds and which is placed at curbside
               for removal.

               Garbage means refuse animal or vegetable matter (as from a kitchen or food-processing facility),
               ashes, or any other household waste which is damp or capable of emitting noxious odors.

               Premises means any residence, building, or structure where garbage, trash, or rubbish is generated
               as a result of human or animal activity.

               Rubbish means waste and refuse material, such as tin cans, bottles, glass, rag, rubber, pieces
               of wood, scraps of iron, tin, wire, or other metals.

               Trash means all refuse other than garbage, debris, brush, household furniture, and appliances,
               including grass clippings, leaves, paper, and other household trash, except as included
               in the foregoing definitions.

               (Code 2008, § 50.01)"
Sec. 40-213.,Preserving evidence.,"(a)

               Maps, diagrams, and sketches.

               (1)

               Accuracy. The paper must correctly represent the situation as it existed at the time of consideration.
               It is not necessary that the map or sketch be drawn to scale provided it is a fair
               representation.

               (2)

               Verification. It is usually held that it is not necessary that the person making the map, diagram,
               or sketch testify as to its correctness, but any person acquainted with the facts
               may do so.

               (b)

               Photographs.

               (1)

               Instructive. Whenever the appearance of a person, place, or object is relevant, a photograph or
               picture is admissible to explain the evidence and aid in its application and to assist
               the court or jury in understanding the case.

               (2)

               Accuracy. The photograph must be a fair and accurate reproduction of the things or conditions
               as they were when the photograph was taken. Where a photograph is offered, not as
               a mere general representation of the thing or condition, but to show distances, colors,
               relative sizes, or locations of objects, it may be very deceptive and misleading,
               therefore, much more convincing proof of its accuracy is required.

               (3)

               Verification. The photograph should be verified by oath of photographer who took it; however, sufficient
               verification may be furnished by the testimony of any competent witness who has sufficient
               knowledge to testify that the photograph fairly represents what it purports to represent.
               The presence of a verifying witness when the photograph was taken may be a factor
               in determining the sufficiency of the accuracy.

               (4)

               Notice to adverse party. It is not essential to the admissibility of the photographs that the adverse party
               should have been notified of the intention to take them.

               (5)

               Inscription on picture. When an otherwise admissible picture has an inscription on it or on the reverse side
               of it, before the photograph can be admitted, the handwriting must be identified or
               concealed so that only the picture itself, and not the message inscribed on it, can
               be considered as evidence.

               (c)

               Samples. Samples are admissible on an issue as to the properties or qualities of the substances
               involved in the case where they are sufficiently identified as to their source and
               that they reflect the condition of the substance or articles as of the time involved
               in the issues.

               (d)

               Documents. The document must be produced in court, together with witnesses to identify it.

               (Code 2008, § 51.115)"
Sec. 40-214.,Pollution investigations.,"In the investigation of pollution incidents, including unpermitted discharges, spills
               of oil or other hazardous materials, where legal action against the discharger or
               person responsible for a spill may result, the investigator shall obtain the following:

                  (1)

                  Names, addresses, phone numbers and positions of all persons who may be responsible
                  for or have knowledge of the discharge or spill.

                  (2)

                  Signed statements, wherever possible indicating where, when and how the discharge
                  or spill occurred and the extent of the discharge or spill. In cases where a witness
                  will not sign a statement, his oral statement should be immediately reduced to writing
                  and should be submitted with the investigator's written report.

                  (3)

                  Samples of discharged or spilled materials, as well as comparative samples from affected
                  and unaffected water in proximity to the discharge or spill. Sample containers are
                  to be immediately and indelibly labeled with the appropriate sample number by the
                  collector and a chain of custody record attached. See section 40-215 pertaining to chain of custody.

                  (4)

                  Photographs at the scene to illustrate the source and extent of pollution. Photographs
                  of good quality are preferable as evidence and should be immediately labeled with
                  location, date, time, a short description of what is being illustrated, and signed
                  by the photographer. If possible, the signature of a witness at the scene should also
                  be obtained for corroborative purposes.

                  (5)

                  License number and other registration of vehicles or vessels involved in pollution
                  incidents. Drivers or operators should be identified and a record made of their names,
                  addresses, employers, and identification.

                  (6)

                  Field notes made at the scene. Since these can be used on the witness stand, the investigator
                  should complete them at the scene and, if possible, have a witness at the scene initial
                  or sign them. Field notes should also contain a sketch of the site with appropriate
                  labeling.

               (Code 2008, § 51.116)"
Sec. 40-215.,Chain of custody.,"All samples and other tangible evidence should be maintained in proper custody until
               disposition or until the samples are dispatched to a laboratory for analysis. A record
               or sample number, source of sample, time, date, and name of person taking the sample
               and each person handling the sample will be kept with the sample as a chain of custody
               record until the sample is delivered to the laboratory. (Placing a sample addressed
               to the laboratory in the U.S. mail constitutes delivery to the laboratory.) Upon delivery
               to the laboratory, the chain of custody record should be immediately submitted to
               the city's water pollution control office and attached to a signed and dated memorandum
               of transmittal.

               (Code 2008, § 51.117)"
Sec. 40-242.,Container required.,"(a)

               It shall be the duty of every owner, agent, lessee, tenant, or occupant of any premises
               in the city to provide and use containers sufficient in size and number to accommodate
               and securely keep all garbage and trash that may accumulate on such premises.

               (b)

               Containers may be constructed of any durable wood, metal or plastic material, or any
               combination thereof. Any container that is in disrepair shall be repaired within the
               earlier of 72 hours of discovery of same or 72 hours of written notification of same
               to the owner or occupant of the premises by the city.

               (c)

               Every customer shall keep all such containers in use securely closed in such a manner
               as to prevent the scattering of the contents and to make them inaccessible to insects,
               rodents, and other animals.

               (d)

               When not placed for collection, containers shall be stored at the premises in a secure
               place. The containers shall be stored so as not to be visible to a person standing
               in front of the premises.

               (Code 2008, § 50.02; Ord. No. 2007-25, 8-20-2007)"
Sec. 40-243.,Placement of containers.,"It shall be the duty of each residential customer to place such garbage and trash
               as follows:

                  (1)

                  All garbage shall be placed in securely closed plastic bags.

                  (2)

                  Trash, excluding wet materials or material which will cause disagreeable smells, shall
                  be placed at curbside on the street bearing the customer's address in disposable containers
                  in such a manner as to prevent such trash from being scattered.

                  (3)

                  Garbage shall not be placed at curbside more than 12 hours prior to the day of pickup.
                  All containers shall be placed at the foregoing prescribed locations not later than
                  7:30 a.m. on the day of scheduled collection, if they are to be picked up.

                  (4)

                  All garbage or trash mixed with water or other liquids shall be drained before being
                  placed into a garbage or trash container.

               (Code 2008, § 50.03)"
Sec. 40-244.,Collection of brush.,"If any brush cannot be placed in disposable containers, it shall be cut in lengths
               not to exceed four feet and shall be trimmed and stacked at curbside to a height of
               not more than three feet with the larger ends placed toward the street. Normal brush
               and trash pickup will not take brush or trash occupying more than 64 cubic feet whether
               loose or in bags. All vines and thorny bushes shall be placed in disposable containers
               and no item shall weigh more than 50 pounds. A customer may receive a special pickup
               upon request for an additional charge, depending on the quantity of material to be
               removed.

               (Code 2008, § 50.04; Ord. No. 90-002, § 20-33, 2-12-1990)"
Sec. 40-249.,Prohibited acts.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw, or deposit any garbage, trash,
               debris, stagnant water, or dead animal into, upon, or along any public property or
               private property of another, except as may be specifically provided by this article.

               (b)

               It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of any premises
               within the city to permit any of the conditions described in subsection (a) of this
               section to exist upon property owned or controlled by him after having actual or constructive
               notice thereof.

               (c)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any material other than
               as specifically provided in this article.

               (d)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage or trash except
               as provided for by this article.

               (e)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match, charcoal, ember,
               or other material in any container used for the disposal of garbage.

               (Code 2008, § 50.09)"
Sec. 40-250.,Nonresidential customers; container types; collection schedules.,"(a)

               It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of multifamily, institutional,
               or industrial premises within the city to cause all garbage and trash accumulated
               on the premises to be placed in disposable containers, or commercial-type containers.
               Commercial-type containers may be used and may be placed at a location on the premises
               as arranged between the customer and the collector, but subject to review by the city
               at any time.

               (b)

               Disposable containers shall be placed at a location on the premises which is readily
               accessible to the collector.

               (c)

               The amount and character of garbage shall be considered in establishing size of commercial
               containers and frequency of pickup. The city shall have final authority to establish
               such size and frequency based on the history of amount and type of garbage generated
               by the customer. The collection and removal of garbage and trash from premises used
               for commercial, institutional, or industrial purposes shall be made as often as necessary
               in order to maintain the premises free of such accumulations. Garbage, except dry
               trash in contractor-supplied containers, shall be collected not less than one time
               each week, except for roll-off containers which shall not be subject to this provision
               so long as they are used solely for brush and dry trash.

               (d)

               An owner or person otherwise in charge of multifamily, commercial, institutional,
               or industrial premises that elects to place garbage and trash in a commercial-type
               container in accordance with this section, shall be required to use a city or city
               contractor supplied container. Customer or other third party-owned commercial-type
               containers shall not be permitted. For the purposes of this section a commercial-type
               container shall include, but not be limited to, a garbage dumpster, bin, or rolloff.

               (Code 2008, § 50.10)"
Sec. 40-252.,License for private collection required; exception.,"(a)

               No person shall collect, remove, or dispose of garbage containers or trash receptacles
               or transport garbage or trash on the streets, alleys, or public thoroughfares of the
               city except duly authorized agents or employees of the city and persons acting pursuant
               to a contract with the city for public collection and disposal of garbage, trash,
               and brush, except as provided in this section. This section shall not apply to the
               transportation of garbage, trash, or brush from outside the city to a disposal site
               outside the city.

               (b)

               Upon application and compliance with this section, a license may be obtained to serve
               the licensee's place of business. A license shall be issued upon application and payment
               of a license fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of
               the city council from time to time to the water commission office for the collection
               and transportation of garbage and trash from the licensee's premises or place of business
               using the licensee's own vehicles, equipment, and personnel. Application for a license
               shall include the following information:

               (1)

               Name and address of applicant;

               (2)

               Business name and business address of applicant;

               (3)

               Type of business of applicant;

               (4)

               Number, size, and type of vehicles to be used for carrying garbage and trash; and

               (5)

               Proposed disposal site.

               (c)

               All licensed trucks and containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
               and trash shall be clearly marked with the owner's name and telephone number in letters
               and figures not less than two inches high.

               (d)

               Garbage and trash shall be removed by the licensee at least once a week.

               (e)

               Violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be sufficient cause for revocation
               of the license by the city council or its designee.

               (f)

               Individuals desiring to occasionally remove brush, debris, or trash from their own
               residence or business may do so if they have regular service from the city's contractor.

               (Code 2008, § 50.12)"
Sec. 40-253.,Out-of-city services.,"The city is not required to furnish garbage services to consumers beyond the corporate
               limits, or to continue to supply, once begun, such services. The city reserves the
               right to provide services to such consumers it deems advisable and to, at any time,
               wholly or partially, discontinue such services to any consumers located outside the
               corporate limits.

               (Code 2008, § 50.13)"
Sec. 40-254.,Subscription required.,"(a)

               Any person who subscribes to water from the city shall also subscribe to sewer and
               garbage removal.

               (b)

               Garbage removal service shall be provided by an independent contractor. Subscription
               to such garbage removal service shall not be required in the following circumstances:

               (1)

               Where a person has complied with the provisions of section 40-285(3) regarding temporary discontinuation of garbage collection service; or

               (2)

               Where a person resides in a subdivision or community that provides one or more centrally
               located communal garbage disposal containers.

               Subscription to city sewer service shall not be required in areas where such service
               is not made available by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 50.14)"
Sec. 40-255.,Contracting for collection services.,"The city council may contract with private parties for collection of garbage and trash
               on any reasonable basis, provided that the award of such contract shall be subject
               to public bidding if required by state law.

               (Code 2008, § 50.15)"
Sec. 40-256.,Dead animals.,"Upon notice to the city offices, dead dogs, cats and other small animals, securely
               contained in plastic bags, may be removed by the animal control officer or city dead
               animal services from private property at the request of the owner, or person occupying
               or in charge of such property."
Sec. 40-257.,Meddling with trash receptacles prohibited.,"It shall be unlawful to meddle with garbage cans, trash, or rubbish receptacles or
               in any way pilfer, search, or scatter contents of such garbage cans or rubbish receptacles
               in or upon any street or alley within the city limits.

               (Code 2008, § 50.18)"
Sec. 40-258.,Containers to be kept sanitary.,"All containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of any substance remaining
               attached to the inside of the container which would attract or breed flies, mosquitoes,
               or other insects. The area surrounding garbage containers shall be maintained in a
               clean and sanitary condition. The contents of all receptacles shall be protected so
               that the wind cannot scatter the contents over the streets, alleys, or other property
               within the city.

               (Code 2008, § 50.19)"
Sec. 40-259.,Removal of building materials and other special types of waste materials.,"(a)

               Waste from building operations, rock waste, building materials, or other refuse resulting
               from building or remodeling operations or resulting from a general cleanup of vacant
               or improved property shall be removed by the building contractor, owner, or occupant
               of the building at his own expense. It shall be unlawful for any person to place such
               materials in any dumpster or other trash receptacle for disposal by the city or any
               agent or contractor of the city.

               (b)

               Manure from cow lots, horse stables, poultry yards, pigeon lofts, and waste oils from
               garages or automobile service stations shall be disposed of at the expense of the
               party responsible in the manner and by the method prescribed by the director of public
               works.

               (c)

               Places of wholesale accumulations such as packing houses, killing and dressing plants
               for fowl, wholesale fruit, and vegetable houses and storage, business houses, and
               other places where the daily accumulations of garbage, trash, and rubbish is more
               than the ordinary quantities, are not included in the service furnished by the city
               and are required to notify the director of public works, who shall direct the disposal
               of such accumulation in a satisfactory manner.

               (Code 2008, § 50.20)"
Sec. 40-260.,Recyclable materials.,"(a)

               No person within the city shall engage in the business of collecting or transporting
               recyclable materials produced in the city without first registering with the city.

               (b)

               A person commits an offense if the person collects or transports recyclable materials
               in violation of subsection (a) of this section.

               (c)

               Exemptions.

               (1)

               The city, city employees, and persons contracting with the city for the purpose of
               collecting and transporting recyclable materials on behalf of the city, are exempt
               from this section.

               (2)

               Persons transporting their own recyclable materials that they generated at their own
               homes or businesses and using their own vehicles and employees, where applicable,
               are exempt from this section.

               (d)

               Registration shall be on forms approved by the city manager. A fee as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time shall
               accompany all registration applications.

               (e)

               Upon completion of the registration form and payment of the fee, the city secretary
               shall issue the applicant a registration certificate valid for one year from the date
               of issuance.

               (Code 2008, § 50.21)"
Secs. 40-261—40-280.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,RATES/BILLING PROCEDURE,NULL
Sec. 40-283.,Billing regulations.,"All monthly water, sewer, and garbage charges shall be billed and considered in all
               things as one charge; the payment shall not be divided at any time for any reason
               and the payment shall apply to said bill as a whole. Said monthly charges shall become
               due and payable on the first of each month following the month in which service was
               rendered, and shall be payable in full by the 15th of that month. If the 15th of the
               month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday, any payment received by the city
               by 5:00 p.m. on the following business day that is not a city holiday will be considered
               a timely payment.

               (Code 2008, § 51.33; Ord. No. 2013-045, § 1, 10-21-2013)"
Sec. 40-284.,Penalty for late payment.,"A late payment (delinquency) penalty as currently established or as hereafter adopted
               by resolution of the city council from time to time shall be imposed on any service
               accounts which are not paid within 15 days after said account becomes due and payable.

               (Code 2008, § 51.34)"
Sec. 40-287.,Service charge for insufficient funds check.,"There is hereby established a service charge as currently established or as hereafter
               adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time which shall be levied
               and assessed by the city when an account for any water, sewer, or garbage service
               provided by the city or an account rendered or collected for said city is paid by
               a check, draft, or money order which is returned unpaid for any reason. The customer
               giving such check, draft, or money order shall be mailed a notice requiring payment
               of the check and a returned check charge within five business days from the date of
               the sending of the notice. If such payment is not made in cash or with certified funds
               within such time, water service shall be discontinued and not be reconnected until
               payment of the reconnection fee and original check amount and returned check fee.
               If any customer's checks are returned twice within any six calendar months, all future
               payments must be in cash or certified funds. The city secretary may waive this provision
               and the returned check charge upon presentation of a letter from the financial institution
               upon which the check or other instrument was drawn acknowledging an error in return
               of such check.

               (Code 2008, § 51.37; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-024
                  
               , § 1, 11-19-2018)"
Sec. 40-285.,Discontinuation of service; notice.,"Water, sewer, and/or garbage collection services to any customer are subject to discontinuation
               after 25 days after the billing date. The following policies will be followed by the
               city regarding discontinuation of service:

                  (1)

                  When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service to a customer
                  for nonpayment of a bill, service will be reinstated only after all bills for service
                  then due have been paid and any required deposit and/or reconnect charges have been
                  made.

                  (2)

                  It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to customers by reason
                  of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard
                  on disputed bills. Prior to the time that service is discontinued, written notice
                  shall be given as follows:

                  a.

                  If not paid before the 26th of the month such bill becomes delinquent, service will
                  be discontinued; and

                  b.

                  Customers disputing the accuracy of bills prior to the time service is discontinued
                  shall have a right to a hearing before the city secretary or her deputy who may order
                  that service not be discontinued until such hearing. The city secretary or her deputy
                  may set the hearing and make a final determination. The customer may be represented
                  by any person of his choosing;

                  c.

                  If a customer requests an extension prior to the cut-off date established by this
                  section for current service, service will be extended until the third of the following
                  month. Such extension will not be granted if the bill is more than one-month delinquent.
                  Extensions may be requested by telephone or in person. No more than two extensions
                  will be granted within any 12-month period.

                  (3)

                  Water service may be discontinued at the request of a utility customer for a vacation
                  hold for the primary meter only as follows:

                  Water service may be discontinued at any time for a vacation hold, upon written request
                  to the city, for a period not to exceed six months and no charges will accrue. During
                  the approved vacation hold, no charges shall accrue for wastewater or garbage service.

               (Code 2008, § 51.35; Ord. No. 2009-005, § 1, 2-16-2009; Ord. No. 2013-021, § 1, 5-20-2013)"
Sec. 40-286.,Reconnect charges.,"If utility service is reconnected after being disconnected for nonpayment, a fee shall
               be required for each time a city employee reconnects service. A separate fee shall
               be required for all service reconnection requests made after regular business hours,
               regardless of the reason for initial disconnection. Regular business hours consist
               of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The fees referenced herein are as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (Code 2008, § 51.36; Ord. No. 2003-024, 6-16-2003)"
Sec. 40-288.,Procedure for bankrupt customers.,"(a)

               Upon receipt by the city of notice of the filing of a petition of bankruptcy by any
               water and/or sewer customer, the city shall suspend the old account and place in the
               city records related to the suspended account a notice that no attempt be made to
               collect on the account any charges for water, sewer, or garbage service unpaid as
               of the date of the bankruptcy filing.

               (b)

               The city shall secure an actual water meter reading within ten working days after
               receipt of the notice of bankruptcy to be used as a cutoff of the suspended account
               and for the initial reading of the new account. If the city is unable to secure access
               to the premises for an actual reading, the city may estimate the initial reading on
               the new account from consumption information contained in the last bill sent prior
               to bankruptcy filing.

               (c)

               The city shall, upon receipt of notice of the filing of the bankruptcy petition by
               a water and/or sewer customer, send a written notice to the debtor that he is required
               to make a deposit with the water and sewer commission as security for continued service.
               Such deposit as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the
               city council from time to time shall be made within 20 days after notification to
               the debtor.

               (d)

               Any debtor who does not make the required deposit within the 20 days shall be subject
               to discontinuation of service.

               (e)

               In no event shall any person seeking relief from the bankruptcy court have service
               discontinued with respect to bills outstanding prior to filing of bankruptcy.

               (f)

               Any debtor who makes a timely deposit but who does not thereafter make timely payments
               shall be subject to receiving turn-off notices and may have service discontinued as
               any other customer. The deposit required in subsection (c) of this section shall be
               used toward payment of any billed amounts accrued after the date of the bankruptcy.
               Such deposit may be made only in cash, certified check, or money order.

               (Code 2008, § 51.38)"
Sec. 40-289.,Payment plans.,"Notwithstanding the provisions of section 40-285, a residential water, sewer and/or garbage collection service customer may no more
               often than one time per calendar year, be permitted to delay payment of delinquent
               bills pursuant to a payment plan. Such plan shall require that all delinquent charges
               be paid in full within no more than six months, and that all bills coming due after
               the date of the agreement be paid before delinquency. No payment plan may be authorized
               for any customer who has an existing plan or who has failed to meet the terms of a
               payment plan.

               (Code 2008, § 51.39)"
Secs. 40-290—40-299.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VI.,WATER AND SEWER PRO RATA,NULL
Sec. 40-300.,Definitions.,"As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings ascribed
               to them. Words and terms used in this article, but not defined in this article shall
               have the meaning ascribed to them in the subdivision ordinance. Words and terms defined
               in both the subdivision ordinance and this article shall be read in harmony unless
               there exists an irreconcilable conflict in which case the definition contained in
               this article shall control.

               City means the City of Alvarado, Texas.

               Developer means the owner of land proposed to be developed, or the person or entity filing
               an application for development of land, or their representatives.

               Development means any activity that requires the submission of a subdivision plat (excluding
               a one-lot replat), development plan or the securing of a building permit.

               Escrow means money placed in the possession of the city to accomplish the purposes set out
               in this article, including, but not limited to, the following: purchase of right-of-way
               and the design and construction of public utilities and streets.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-301.,Purpose.,"The purpose of this article is to provide for the orderly, safe and healthy development
               of the area both within the city and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction and
               to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the community. It is also the
               purpose of this article to establish responsibilities for the extension of water and
               sewer mains and other public utility improvements into the various drainage basins
               located within the city limits of the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction,
               to provide a procedure for acquiring necessary easements and rights-of-way, and to
               establish responsibilities for paying for the cost of constructing the water and sewer
               improvements, preparing the engineering and survey work necessary to design and install
               the water and sewer improvements and the cost of inspecting any and all construction
               undertaken pursuant to this article. This article is designed to be used in conjunction
               with the subdivision ordinance to ensure an orderly development plan for the growth
               of the community, and to ensure the creation and effective operation of a utility
               infrastructure appropriate in size and character to support reasonable levels of development
               within the community.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-302.,Basic policy.,"(a)

               Subdivisions within the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction within the city's
               certificate of convenience and necessity (CCN) shall be provided with an approved
               water supply and distribution system and with an approved sewage collection and disposal
               system. Connection with the city's sanitary sewer system shall be required except
               where the city engineer determines that such connection will require unreasonable
               expenditures when compared with other methods of sewage disposal.

               (b)

               The developer shall pay all costs attributable to the installation of water and sewer
               facilities as are needed to fulfill the basic criteria requirements of the city for
               service within the subdivision.

               (c)

               The construction of all water and sewer infrastructure for a subdivision shall be
               covered by a written agreement prepared or approved by the city attorney which clearly
               defines the scope and details of the proposed improvements and particularly contains
               the developer's agreement to abide by all regulations of the city and to deliver to
               the city clear and unencumbered title to all the proposed improvements at the time
               of acceptance by the city, which must be prior to commencing service.

               (d)

               The city intends to extend public utility service to all areas within its corporate
               limits and its extraterritorial jurisdiction within the city's CCN at some point in
               the future. Public utility system extensions will be made in conformance with the
               city's adopted capital improvement program and are projected to occur over many years
               based upon the fiscal capability of the city and the growth characteristics of each
               area of the city.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-303.,Platting required.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to provide water or sewer service to any lot or
               tract of land or any part thereof unless and until a plat of such lot or tract of
               land meeting the platting requirements of the city, has been approved by the planning
               and zoning commission and the city council and has been filed for record with the
               county. Before consideration of a final plat by the planning and zoning commission,
               the developer of the tract or subdivision shall submit to the city engineer for his
               approval a map or plat showing the location of water and sanitary sewer mains which
               will be required to ensure adequate service and fire protection for the lots specified
               in the proposed tract or subdivision.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-304.,Developer's responsibilities.,"(a)

               In the event that a development proposal is submitted which will require the use of
               a public water and/or sewer system, and no such public system has yet been extended
               into the area where the proposed development is located, it will be the responsibility
               of the developer to comply with the terms and conditions of this article in order
               to ensure the immediate availability of service.

               (b)

               It is, and shall remain, the responsibility of each individual developer to undertake
               those construction activities necessary to tie his or her development project into
               the water or sewer main serving that specific drainage basin or service area. Should
               a lift station and/or force main be required in order to utilize a proposed off-site
               service location, such lift station and/or force main shall be installed at the developer's
               cost. In order to promote economic development, the economic development corporation
               of the city (""EDC"") may participate in construction of water and sewer mains and infrastructure,
               provided that the EDC may share in pro rata reimbursement described in section 40-308.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 42-370.,Additional restrictions applicable to manufactured home subdivision district.,"(a)

               Manufactured housing design and construction will comply with construction and safety
               standards published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to
               the requirements of the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and
               all manufactured homes will be subject to inspection by the building official.

               (b)

               All manufactured homes shall be set on a solid slab structure and/or 18-inch to 20-inch
               runners and/or pier and beam construction consistent with Rural Economic and Community
               Development Administration (formerly Farmer's Home Administration) standards. Additional
               rooms and enclosed porches shall be constructed on a solid slab.

               (c)

               Tie-downs will be required and will be secured prior to occupancy.

               (d)

               Underpinning and skirting will be required and will be installed prior to occupancy.
               Upon determination by the city administrator that a bona fide hardship will be incurred
               by this provision, a waiver of up to 90 days' occupancy may be granted prior to strict
               enforcement of this provision.

               (e)

               Accessory buildings will be either manufactured or constructed in accordance with
               city codes.

               (f)

               All manufactured homes and modular homes shall comply with all regulations of the
               state and such regulations are hereby incorporated into this division.

               (Ord. No. 2011-003, § 1, 2-21-2011)"
Secs. 42-371—42-378.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 40-305.,Determination of system availability.,"(a)

               When a developer plans to undertake a specific development project within the city
               or its extraterritorial jurisdiction and the development will require service through
               a public water and/or sewer system, it will be the responsibility of the developer
               to contact the city engineer to determine system availability. The developer will
               advise the city engineer in writing of the specific location of his development, the
               total size of the development in acreage, living units and/or square feet of commercial
               or industrial space, the type of development and land use to occur within the subdivision
               and the approximate time when public utilities will be required. The information may
               be incorporated into a preliminary plat or development plan application submitted
               to the city engineer.

               (b)

               The city engineer shall review the city's current water and sanitary sewer system
               and determine whether service is currently available to the development. If service
               is available through an existing main, the city engineer shall identify the point
               on that main where the development will be permitted to tie into the system and will
               advise the developer in writing of the location where a tie-in will be permitted.
               The city engineer shall support such written notice with such map exhibits as are
               necessary to clearly delineate the point of tie-in.

               (c)

               In the event that a connection to an existing utility main is possible, the city engineer
               will determine if the utility main has been installed by the city as a portion of
               its capital improvement program or whether it was installed by a prior developer or
               the EDC under the approach main extension policies of this article. In the event that
               the utility main was installed by the city as a portion of its capital improvement
               program, the developer will be advised that there will be no pro rata reimbursement
               charge to tie into the utility main. The developer will be responsible for the entire
               cost of the approach main or service line connecting his development to the utility
               main.

               (d)

               If the utility main or a portion of the utility system serving the development was
               installed by a prior developer or the EDC under the approach main extension policy
               outlined in this article, the city engineer will advise the developer of his pro rata
               share of costs for connection to this line. The developer shall pay the pro rata charge
               into the pro rata escrow account of the city prior to making a tie-in to the system.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-306.,Construction of approach mains.,"If the city engineer should determine that utility service to a proposed development
               is not available at the present time, the developer will be so advised in writing.
               In this situation, the developer must select among the following alternatives:

                  (1)

                  Discontinue his proposed development until such time as a utility system has been
                  installed within the drainage basin or service area;

                  (2)

                  Petition the city council to expedite the construction of a utility system capable
                  of serving the proposed development under its regular capital improvement program;
                  or

                  (3)

                  Install the necessary utilities to the point necessary to serve the development. The
                  developer will be responsible for all costs associated with the installation of necessary
                  utilities, including but not limited to engineering, attorneys fees, surveying, testing,
                  easement preparation, easement acquisition, construction and inspection. The public
                  utilities will be designed and constructed to city standards and specifications as
                  the city engineer determines to be applicable. The developer may install the public
                  utilities himself or may contract with the city to secure construction of the utilities
                  by the city. All financial arrangements, including any necessary bonding, shall be
                  completed prior to the execution of a developer agreement. In the event that a developer
                  elects to pursue this alternative, he will be eligible to receive a pro rata reimbursement,
                  for a period of ten years, from future developers who tie into these specific utilities.
                  If the EDC has constructed the utilities at its cost, or if the EDC has participated
                  with the developer in the costs associated with the installation of the necessary
                  utilities, the EDC will be eligible to receive a pro rata reimbursement, for a period
                  of ten years, from future developers who tie into these specific utilities.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-307.,Ownership and maintenance.,"All water and sewer systems constructed within dedicated public right-of-way in connection
               with the development shall be and shall remain the property of the city and, after
               expiration of the maintenance bonds, shall be maintained by the city. Maintenance
               bonds shall be required for a period of two years after acceptance of the water and
               sewer system.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-308.,Pro rata cost allocation where public utilities are financed by initial developer.,"(a)

               If a public utility system is installed within a drainage basin or service area by
               a developer, each subsequent development within the drainage basin or service area
               which ties into the public utility system shall pay a pro rata share of the cost of
               the utility system installed by the initial developer. The pro rata fee shall be paid
               prior to connection to the utility system. The pro rata fee for each subsequent development
               seeking service shall be determined on a cost per acre basis by calculating the proportional
               area of the new development to the total area within the drainage basin or service
               area served by the public utility system, multiplied by the total cost of the public
               utility system installed by the initial developer. Total cost of the utilities shall
               include construction, engineering, attorneys fees, surveying, testing, easement preparation,
               easement acquisition, and inspection costs.

               (b)

               Provided the city collects the funds, each initial developer shall be entitled to
               a rebate of the pro rata charge against subsequent developers for a period of ten
               years following completion and acceptance of the utilities, or until the initial developer
               has been paid all allowable reimbursable charges, whichever occurs first. At the expiration
               of the tenth year, the developer will no longer be entitled to receive any reimbursement.

               (c)

               If the EDC has constructed the utilities at its cost, or if the EDC has participated
               with the developer in the costs associated with the installation of such public utilities,
               the EDC will be eligible to receive a pro rata reimbursement as outlined above.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 42-20.,A agricultural district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The A district is intended to apply to land situated on the fringe of an urban area
               which is currently used for agricultural purposes, and which may become an urban area
               in the future. Therefore, the agricultural activities conducted in the A district
               should not be detrimental to urban land uses and the intensity of use permitted in
               this district is intended to encourage and protect agricultural uses until urbanization
               is warranted and the appropriate change in district classification is made.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the A agricultural district, no building or land shall be used and no building
               shall be hereafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged, unless otherwise
               provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory buildings and structures clearly incidental to agricultural operations,
                              including but not limited to barns, stables, equipment sheds, granaries, private garages,
                              pump houses, and servants quarters not for rent, provided that the total area of buildings
                              and structures shall be limited to ten percent of the gross land area of the tract.

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Carport, private

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Country club (private)

                              1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area or for every 5 members, whichever
                              is greater

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Farm, ranch, or orchard

                              1 space per employee

                              Garage, private

                              0 spaces

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Golf course

                              Minimum of 30 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, commercial

                              1 space per 200 square feet of floor area

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Kennel

                              1 space per 200 square feet of floor area

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Nonprofit animal shelter

                              1 space per 200 square feet of floor area

                              Oil, gas, other mineral extraction

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Riding academy or other equestrian related activities

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 2 patrons based on maximum patron load

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwellings on building lots of two acres or more in areas where said
                              dwellings can be adequately served by city utilities or septic tanks located on the
                              building lot provided

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Stable, private

                              1 space per employee

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone exchange

                              1 space per employee

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Temporary metal buildings of less than 600 square feet which are used for tool and
                              supply storage

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              5 acres
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width at front building line:

                              100 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth, average:

                              120 linear feet

                              Front setback

                              50 linear feet

                              Side setback

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Rear setback:

                              50 linear feet

                              Maximum ground coverage

                              10% of lot area

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              0.50 DU

                              Height:

                              45 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                Single-family dwellings require building lots of two acres or more.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

               (d)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the A district when authorized under the
               provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Airport, landing field

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space per stored vehicle

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Electric power generating plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Exhibition area

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 2 patrons based on maximum patron load

                              Fairgrounds

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 2 patrons based on maximum patron load

                              Feedlot, livestock

                              1 space per employee

                              Flea market

                              1.5 spaces for each 200 square feet of gross floor area or market area

                              Fraternal organization, lodge

                              1.25 spaces per 200 square feet

                              Fraternal organization, lodge or civic club

                              1.25 spaces per 200 square feet

                              Golf driving range

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space per 5,000 square feet of floor area

                              Guest house

                              1 space per unit

                              Hatchery

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Heliport or heliatop

                              1 space if located on the ground

                              Landfill

                              1 space per employee

                              Liquefied petroleum gas, storage and sale (no bulk plants)

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 2000 square feet of floor area

                              Prison, jail or place of incarceration

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 200 square feet of visitor floor area

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Racetrack

                              1 space for every 4 seats or bench seating

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, commercial. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Rodeo arena and grounds

                              1 space for every 4 seats or bench seating

                              School, trade or commercial

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Shooting range, target range

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 5,000 square feet of floor area

                              Shops, office and/or storage area of public or private utility

                              1 space per employee

                              Solid waste transfer station

                              1 space per employee

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-21.,SF-1 single-family residential district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The SF-1 district is the most restrictive of residential zones and should be applied
               in areas of larger lots, more contemporary subdivision design and layout, and for
               areas that are designed solely for residential uses. This zoning classification should
               be applied in areas of the city to conserve neighborhood character and value of buildings.
               This district can be appropriately located in proximity to multifamily residential
               areas and certain neighborhood local retail and office uses.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the SF-1 single-family residential district, no building or land shall be used
               and no building shall be hereafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged,
               unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              7,500 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              60 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              125 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              25/35 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              25 linear feet
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              40/50
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              4.0 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 7,500 square feet may be used for a single family residence if
               it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot existing
               at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the minimum
               requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

                  4
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the SF-1 district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, public or private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Country club (private)

                              1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area or for every 5 members, whichever
                              is greater

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Farm, ranch, or orchard

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Golf course

                              Minimum of 30 spaces

                              Guest house

                              1 space per unit

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Library

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              School, private (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, public (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (e)

               Special construction requirements.

               (1)

               Development of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other material
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (2)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided, however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (3)

               Applicability of regulations. These construction requirements shall apply to all the following:

               a.

               Newly constructed houses.

               b.

               Houses moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (4)

               Attic space. All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (5)

               Living space. All residential structures must have at least 1,200 square feet of living space.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-22.,SF-2 single-family residential district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The SF-2 district is not as restrictive as the ""SF-1"" district. This district is
               to be applied in areas where smaller residential lots are appropriate and in areas
               of transition between nonresidential uses and the SF-1 single-family residential district.
               This district also functions as a buffer or transition between major streets and the
               SF-1 district.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the SF-2 single-family residential district, no building or land shall be used
               and no building shall be hereafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged,
               unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Retirement housing

                              1 space for each 6 beds per unit

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              1 space for each 100 square feet of gross water surface and deck area

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              6,000 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              50 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              120 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              25/35 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              25 linear feet
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              45/55
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              6.00 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 6,000 square feet may be used for a single family residence if
               it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot existing
               at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the minimum
               requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

                  4
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the SF-2 district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, public or private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Country club (private)

                              1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area or for every 5 members, whichever
                              is greater

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Farm, ranch, or orchard

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Golf course

                              Minimum of 30 spaces

                              Guest house

                              1 space per unit

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Library

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              School, private (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, public (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Zero lot line house

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit

               &nbsp;

               (e)

               Special construction requirements.

               (1)

               Developments of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other material
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (2)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided; however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (3)

               Applicability of regulations. These construction requirements shall apply to all the following:

               a.

               Newly constructed houses.

               b.

               Houses moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (4)

               Attic space. All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (5)

               Living space. All residential structures must have at least 1,200 square feet of living space.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-23.,GH garden home district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The GH district provides for the construction of detached single family homes on
               zero lot line lots. In all other respects, the GH district is intended to provide
               the same benefits and atmosphere as other single family districts. This district can
               be appropriately located in proximity to multifamily residential areas and certain
               neighborhood local retail and office uses.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations.

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Garden (patio) home

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to main structure

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Retirement housing

                              1 space for each 6 beds per unit

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              1 space for each 100 square feet of gross water surface and deck area

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              2,800 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              25 linear feet on residential streets and 35 linear feet on collector and major streets

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              120 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              15 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              0 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              5 linear feet
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              45/65
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              12 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 2,800 square feet may be used for a garden home or other single
               family residence if it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this
               chapter. No lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in
               area below the minimum requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The minimum front yard shall be 15 feet, provided that in no case shall a garage
               or carport fronting onto a street be less than 20 feet from the property line adjacent
               to the street. The front yard setback may be staggered, varied, or reduced to a minimum
               setback of ten feet for lots facing cul-de-sac or loop streets not exceeding 400 feet
               in length, with the approval of a site plan or subdivision plat. Under this provision
               the maximum setback shall be 25 feet. A minimum lot depth of 65 feet, as measured
               from front building line to rear lot line, shall be maintained.

                  3
                  
                The minimum side yard shall be zero feet except that there shall be at least ten
               feet of separation between structures. When garden (patio) homes are constructed with
               a zero side yard, five feet on the lot adjacent to the zero setback shall be dedicated
               as an access/maintenance easement for the zero setback garden home. There shall be
               a minimum side yard setback of 20 feet from any property line adjacent to a street.
               Side yard setbacks and access/maintenance easements shall be shown on the subdivision
               plat.

                  4
                  
                The minimum rear yard shall be five feet for a single story structure and 15 feet
               for any two-story structure. If access is from an alley, the minimum setback will
               be 20 feet for garages or carports. A one-story wing or extension may be built to
               within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Site plan required. A site plan meeting the requirements of section 42-56 shall be required for each application for the development of a garden home in the
               GH district.

               (e)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the GH district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, public or private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee, plus 1 space for each 6 beds

                              Country club (private)

                              1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area or for every 5 members, whichever
                              is greater

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Farm, ranch, or orchard

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Golf course

                              Minimum of 30 spaces

                              Guest house

                              1 space per unit

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Library

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              School, private (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              School, public (primary and/or secondary)

                              1 space for each four seats in the main auditorium or 1 space for each classroom plus
                              1 space for each 2 students, whichever is greater

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (f)

               Special construction requirements.

               (1)

               Developments of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other material
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (2)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided; however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (3)

               Applicability of regulations. These construction regulations shall apply to all the following:

               a.

               Newly constructed houses.

               b.

               Houses moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (4)

               Attic space. All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (5)

               Living space. All residential structures must have at least 1,200 square feet of living space.

               (g)

               Common area maintenance. To ensure the long-term maintenance of common land and facilities in garden home
               developments, the following shall be required:

               (1)

               Plats and site plans shall be approved subject to the submission of a legal instrument
               setting forth a plan or manner of permanent care and maintenance of open spaces, recreational
               areas and other commonly owned facilities. No such instrument shall be acceptable
               until approved by the city attorney as to legal form and effect. A homeowners' association
               (HOA) is the most widely accepted technique for managing commonly owned property.
               Such association shall provide proof of incorporation prior to issuance of a construction
               permit.

               (2)

               The HOA or other similar management entity shall be organized as a nonprofit corporation
               with automatic membership in the management entity when property is purchased. This
               shall be specified in the covenants which run with the land and which bind all subsequent
               owners. Covenants for maintenance assessments shall also run with the land. Included
               in the maintenance covenants shall be procedures for changing them at stated intervals.
               Deeds shall also reference the rights and responsibilities of property owners to the
               management entity. The management entity shall also be responsible for liability insurance,
               local taxes, and the maintenance of all commonly held facilities through the use of
               a pro rata formula for all property owners.

               (h)

               Usable open space requirements. Each parcel of land developed under garden home standards shall provide usable open
               space totaling 15 percent of the area of the parcel. Such open space shall have a
               maximum slope of ten percent and shall be exclusive of street and alley rights-of-way
               and/or easements, individually platted lots without open space easements, private
               yards and patios. The 15 percent shall be computed on the percentage of total platted
               area in a garden home subdivision, excluding right-of-way for major and secondary
               streets (as described in the current comprehensive plan). At the time of site plan
               and/or subdivision plat approval, the city council may give full or partial credit
               for open areas that exceed the maximum slope or which are otherwise unusable if it
               is determined that such areas are environmentally or aesthetically significant and
               that their existence enhances the development.

               (i)

               Additional landscaping. In addition to any required landscaping for common areas, the front yard and parkway
               areas shall be landscaped and permanently maintained.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-24.,MH-1 manufactured home park district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The MH-1 district is established to allow for the development of quality manufactured
               home park developments which create lots or units of land under single ownership where
               the individual lots or units of land are rented or leased for the placement of a single
               manufactured home. This district provides adequate space and restrictions for the
               placement of manufactured housing in the city where adequate streets and other community
               facilities are available for present and future needs. The MH-1 district is established
               to provide housing densities compatible with single family neighborhoods and to promote
               the most desirable use of land; to promote stability of development; to preserve the
               value of the land and improvements; and to protect the city's tax base.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the MH-1 district, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be
               hereinafter erected or placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged, unless otherwise
               provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Manufactured home, HUD Code

                              1 space per unit

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              5,000 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              40 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              125 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              5/35 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              25 linear feet (25 feet street side)
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              40/50
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              6.0 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 5,000 square feet may be used for a manufactured home residence
               if it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot
               existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the
               minimum requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

                  4
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Site plan required. A site plan meeting the requirements of section 42-56 shall be required for each application for the development of a manufactured home
               park in the MH-1 district.

               (e)

               Screening. A landscape buffer meeting the requirements of section 42-58 will be required when this use is located adjacent to any residential district.

               (f)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the MH-1 district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community center, public

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (g)

               Additional restrictions applicable to manufactured home park district.

               (1)

               Manufactured housing design and construction must comply with construction and safety
               standards published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to
               the requirements of the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and
               all manufactured homes will be subject to inspection by the building official.

               (2)

               All manufactured homes shall be set on a solid slab structure and/or 18-inch to 20-inch
               runners and/or pier and beam construction consistent with Rural Economic and Community
               Development Administration (formerly Farmer's Home Administration) standards. Additional
               rooms and enclosed porches shall be constructed on a solid slab.

               (3)

               Tie-downs are required and must be secured prior to occupancy.

               (4)

               Underpinning and skirting are required and must be installed prior to occupancy. Upon
               determination by the city manager that a bona fide hardship will be incurred by this
               provision, a waiver of up to 90 days occupancy may be granted prior to strict enforcement
               of this provision.

               (5)

               Accessory buildings will be either manufactured or constructed in accordance with
               city codes.

               (6)

               All manufactured homes shall comply with all regulations of the state and such regulations
               are hereby incorporated into this section.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-25.,MH-2 manufactured home subdivision district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The MH-2 district is intended to provide for quality manufactured home subdivision
               development containing most of the characteristics and atmosphere of a standard single
               family residential subdivision. The development is designed in a similar manner as
               a single family residential subdivision with lots being platted for separate ownership.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the MH-2 manufactured housing district, no building or land shall be used and
               no building shall be hereinafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged,
               unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the carport

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Manufactured home, HUD Code

                              1 space per unit

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              6,000 square feet
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              50 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              120 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              25/35 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10/15 linear feet
                              
                                 3

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              25 linear feet
                              
                                 4

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              40/50
                              
                                 5

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              6.0 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 6,000 square feet may be used for a manufactured home residence
               if it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot
               existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the
               minimum requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential
               street; the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector
               or major street.

                  4
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 15 feet of the rear lot line.

                  5
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Site plan required. A site plan meeting the requirements of section 42-56 shall be required prior to a manufactured home subdivision development in the MH-2
               district.

               (e)

               Screening. A landscape buffer meeting the requirements of section 42-58 will be required when this use is located adjacent to any residential district.

               (f)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the MH-2 district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community center, public

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Travel trailer park

                              1 space per unit

                              Water storage, elevated or ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (g)

               Additional restrictions applicable to manufactured home subdivision district.

               (1)

               Manufactured housing design and construction must comply with construction and safety
               standards published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to
               the requirements of the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and
               all manufactured homes will be subject to inspection by the building official.

               (2)

               All manufactured homes shall be set on a solid slab structure and/or 18-inch to 20-inch
               runners and/or pier and beam construction consistent with Rural Economic and Community
               Development Administration (formerly Farmer's Home Administration) standards. Additional
               rooms and enclosed porches shall be constructed on a solid slab.

               (3)

               Tie-downs are required and will be secured prior to occupancy.

               (4)

               Underpinning and skirting are required and must be installed prior to occupancy. Upon
               determination by the city manager that a bona fide hardship will be incurred by this
               provision, a waiver of up to 90 days occupancy may be granted prior to strict enforcement
               of this provision.

               (5)

               Accessory buildings will be either manufactured or constructed in accordance with
               city codes.

               (6)

               All manufactured homes shall comply with all regulations of the state and such regulations
               are hereby incorporated into this section.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-26.,MH-3 manufactured home subdivision district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The MH-3 district is intended to provide for quality manufactured home subdivision
               development containing most of the characteristics and atmosphere of a standard single
               family residential subdivision. The development is designed in a similar manner as
               a single family residential subdivision with lots being platted for separate ownership.
               The MH-3 district allows more flexible design standards than the MH-2 district.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In the MH-3 manufactured housing district, no building or land shall be used and
               no building shall be hereinafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged,
               unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the carport

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (temporary)

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Manufactured home, HUD Code

                              1 space per unit

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 enclosed spaces per unit, must be attached to the main structure

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              6,000 square
                              
                                 1

                              Minimum lot width:

                              50 linear feet

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              120 linear feet

                              Minimum front yard:

                              12 linear feet

                              Minimum side yard:

                              8/10 linear feet
                              
                                 2

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              10 linear feet

                              Maximum ground coverage
                              
                                 ***
                                 
                              :

                              40/50
                              
                                 3

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              6.0 DU

                              Height:

                              35 linear feet

               &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                A lot of less than 6,000 square feet may be used for a manufactured home residence
               if it was an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter. No lot
               existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be reduced in area below the
               minimum requirements set forth in this district.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard not abutting
               a street; the second number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a street.

                  3
                  
                The first number in the column refers to coverage by primary buildings; the second
               number refers to coverage by all buildings.

               (d)

               Site plan required. A site plan meeting the requirements of section 42-56 shall be required prior to a manufactured home subdivision development in the MH-3
               district.

               (e)

               Screening. A landscape buffer meeting the requirements of section 42-58 will be required when this use is located adjacent to any residential district.

               (f)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the MH-3 district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Assisted living facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Boarding home facility

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Cemetery or mausoleum

                              1 space per employee plus 1 space for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area

                              Child care center

                              1 space per ten pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Church, rectory, place of worship

                              1 space for every 4 seats in the main auditorium

                              College or university

                              1 space for each 2 students, plus 1 space for each classroom, laboratory or instruction
                              area

                              Community center, private

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community center, public

                              10 spaces plus 1 additional space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area in
                              excess of 2,000 square feet. If an auditorium is included as a part of the building,
                              its floor area shall be deducted from the total and additional parking provided on
                              the basis of 1 space for each 4 seats that it contains

                              Community home

                              1 space per employee to be occupying the building

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Gas metering station

                              1 space per employee

                              Hospital (chronic care); long term heath care facility

                              1 space for each 2 beds

                              Nursery school, kindergarten

                              1 space per 10 pupils/clients (design capacity)

                              Public or private franchised utility, excluding office buildings, garages, shops,
                              railroad yards, loading yards, and warehouses

                              1 space per employee

                              Radio, TV or microwave operation, amateur. (See further regulations in section 42-55(i))

                              1 space per employee

                              Registered family home

                              1 space per employee

                              Servant's, caretaker's or guard's residence

                              1 space per unit

                              Service yards of government agency

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

                              Travel trailer park

                              1 space per unit

                              Water storage, elevated

                              0 spaces

                              Water storage, ground

                              0 spaces

                              Water treatment plant

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (g)

               Additional restrictions applicable to manufactured home subdivision district.

               (1)

               Manufactured housing design and construction must comply with construction and safety
               standards published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to
               the requirements of the National Mobile Home and Safety Standards Act of 1974 and
               all manufactured homes will be subject to inspection by the building official.

               (2)

               All manufactured homes shall be set on a solid slab structure and/or 18-inch to 20-inch
               runners and/or pier and beam construction consistent with Rural Economic and Community
               Development Administration (formerly Farmer's Home Administration) standards. Additional
               rooms and enclosed porches shall be constructed on a solid slab.

               (3)

               Tie-downs are required and must be secured prior to occupancy.

               (4)

               Underpinning and skirting are required and must be installed prior to occupancy. Upon
               determination by the city manager that a bona fide hardship will be incurred by this
               provision, a waiver of up to 90 days' occupancy may be granted prior to strict enforcement
               of this provision.

               (5)

               Accessory buildings will be either manufactured or constructed in accordance with
               city codes.

               (6)

               All manufactured homes shall comply with all regulations of the state and such regulations
               are hereby incorporated into this section.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 40-309.,Management of escrow account.,"(a)

               The city shall establish an escrow account in the water/sewer fund for the deposit
               of all pro rata payments made by subsequent developers. A separate escrow account
               shall be established for each public utility system constructed by an initial developer.
               All pro rata fees received from subsequent developments or subdivisions in that drainage
               basin or service area shall be deposited into that specific escrow account.

               (b)

               A minimum of twice each year, on January 30 and on July 31, the city administrator,
               or his designee, shall inventory each escrow account to determine what percentage
               of those monies is allocable to reimbursable oversizing costs owed by the city as
               determined under section 40-310, below. This allocation shall be determined in the same proportion that the cost
               of the oversized line bears to the cost of the line size that is necessary to serve
               the development. For other utility system improvements, the allocation shall be determined
               in the same proportion that the cost of the oversized improvements bears to the cost
               of the minimum improvements required by city ordinances to serve the development,
               as determined by the city engineer. Upon completion of such inventory, the city administrator,
               or his designee, shall transmit all escrow funds due and owing to the initial developer.
               Upon payment of these funds, the city will receive a credit for the amount of money
               allocable toward its reimbursable oversizing requirements as set forth in section 40-310.

               (c)

               The developer shall be responsible for providing to the city, and maintaining with
               the city, an accurate current address. When escrowed funds are available for disbursement,
               the city shall notify the developer at the address on file with the city. If the developer
               fails to withdraw the funds within six months, the funds shall be forfeited to the
               city's water and sewer fund.

               (d)

               At no time shall the developer be entitled to receive reimbursement for a sum greater
               than the initial cost of the public utilities less the pro rata share of capacity
               of that utility system that would have been attributable to the initial development
               for its proportionate share of capacity in the system.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Sec. 40-310.,Oversizing.,"In order to provide appropriate capacity for reasonably anticipated development in
               a drainage basin or service area, the city engineer, with the approval of the city
               council, may require a developer to install a utility line or system improvement larger
               than necessary to support the developer's specific development. In the event that
               the city council requires the installation of a utility line or system improvement
               larger than required to serve the development, the developer installing the line will
               be reimbursed by the city for the difference in cost between the size of the line
               required by the city and the line size or system improvement required to serve the
               development. The size of the facilities required to serve the development shall be
               determined by the city engineer. The city may compensate the developer for the difference
               in cost mandated by oversizing through the process of allowing the developer credits
               of up to 50 percent of all development fees charged against any portion or phase of
               the development. Upon written request of the developer, credit for development fees
               may be transferred from the current development project to subsequent development
               projects, subdivisions or phases undertaken by the developer.

               (Ord. No.
               
                  2015-023
                  
               , § 1, 12-21-2015)"
Chapter 42,ZONING,"Footnotes:  --- (1) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               Ord. No.
               
                  2015-005
                  
               , § 1, adopted April 20, 2015, set out provisions for use herein as arts. I—VII, §§
               42-1—42-10, 42-20—42-36, 42-45, 42-55—42-59, 42-70—42-73, 42-80—42-85, 42-95—42-99.
               Inasmuch as provisions with similar numbering existed at the time of codification,
               and at the direction of the city, the existing provisions numbered arts. III—VII were
               maintained by renumbering as new arts. VIII—XII.

            State Law reference— 
               Regulation of land use, structures, businesses, and related activities, V.T.C.A.,
               Local Government Code ch. 211 et seq.; planning and development, V.T.C.A., Local Government
               Code ch. 371 et seq."
ARTICLE I.,APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE,NULL
Secs. 42-38—42-44.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE III.,SPECIAL USES,NULL
Sec. 42-45.,Additional regulations for special uses.,"(a)

               Generally. The following uses, where permitted in the various zoning districts, shall be operated
               only in accordance with the requirements set forth below.

               (b)

               Child care centers.

               (1)

               No portion of a child care center site may be located within 300 feet of gasoline
               pumps or underground gasoline storage tanks, or any other storage area for explosive
               or highly combustible materials.

               (2)

               Child care centers shall be located adjacent to a street having a pavement width of
               27 feet or greater.

               (3)

               Site plan approval by the planning and zoning commission and city council shall be
               required for all child care center sites, whether or not a specific use permit is
               required.

               (4)

               Child care centers located within any single-family or two-family residential district
               shall be required to plat in multiples of the minimum lot width of the district classification
               requirements. The lot depth shall meet the minimum district requirements and must
               be platted in a configuration which can be converted into standard lots for residential
               development.

               (5)

               All child care centers shall comply with the following standards:

               a.

               All vehicular entrances and exits shall be clearly visible from the street.

               b.

               All passenger loading and unloading areas shall be located so as to avoid safety hazards
               from vehicular traffic and adequate walkways shall be provided.

               c.

               Outdoor play areas shall be provided at a rate of 65 square feet per child based on
               maximum design capacity of the center. This requirement may be waived by the planning
               and zoning commission if the child care is provided for less than four hours per day
               for an individual person.

               d.

               In residential districts, a maximum of one-half of the required outdoor play space
               may be provided off site. When off-premises outdoor play area is utilized, it must
               be located within 100 feet of the child care facility premises and safely accessible
               without crossing, at-grade, any major or secondary street.

               e.

               No child care center shall be part of a one-family or two-family dwelling.

               (c)

               Construction yards, field offices, and other temporary buildings. Temporary permits for construction yards and field offices shall be issued for a
               period of time not to exceed 18 months. Extensions may be granted by the city council.
               Upon due notice and hearing before the city council, any such permit may be revoked
               if the city council finds the use is contrary to the intent of this chapter or results
               in noise, traffic, or other conditions considered to be a nuisance or hazard.

               (d)

               Residence hotels. Residence hotels shall be designed to allow for their potential conversion to multifamily
               residences and as such shall comply with all minimum standards set forth in section 42-28. Residence hotels constructed in the MF district shall comply with the MF district
               requirements. Open space shall be provided in sufficient quantity and locations to
               allow for required additional parking should the residence hotel convert to multifamily
               residences.

               (e)

               Automobile service stations. Gasoline pump islands at automobile service stations and convenience stores may not
               be located nearer than 18 feet to the front property line. An unenclosed canopy for
               a gasoline pump island may extend beyond the front building line but shall not be
               closer than ten feet to the property line.

               (f)

               Swimming pools. It is the purpose of the following provisions to recognize an outdoor swimming pool
               as a potentially attractive nuisance and to promote the safety and enjoyment of property
               rights by establishing rules and regulations governing the location and improvement
               of swimming pools whether privately, publicly, or commercially owned or operated.

               (1)

               No swimming pool shall be constructed or used until a swimming pool building permit
               has been issued therefor. No building permit shall be issued unless the proposed sanitary
               facilities and water supply comply with applicable local and state health department
               regulations.

               (2)

               A swimming pool may be constructed and operated when:

               a.

               The pool is not located in any required front yard or side yard abutting a street;

               b.

               A wall or fence, not less than four feet in height, with self-enclosing and self-latching
               gates at all entrances, completely encloses either the pool area or the surrounding
               yard area;

               c.

               All lighting of the pool is shielded or directed to face away from adjoining residence.
               If lights are not individually shielded they shall be so placed, or the enclosing
               wall or fence shall be so designed, that direct rays from the lights shall not be
               visible from adjacent properties;

               d.

               No broadcasting system is used for the purpose of advertising the operation of the
               pool or for the attraction of persons to the premises. This shall not prevent a public
               address system necessary or useful to the supervision of the pool and the safety of
               swimmers;

               e.

               The swimming pool is no closer than eight feet from any property line for all public
               and commercially owned pools; and

               f.

               For private residential pools, the swimming pool is no closer than:

               1.

               Three feet from any property line, and

               2.

               Five feet from the main building.

               (g)

               Teen clubs. In order to provide a safe and secure environment, at least one uniformed security
               officer or off-duty police officer for every 100 occupants shall be working in the
               club during all hours of operation of a teen club; provided, however, the first security
               officer or off duty police officer shall not be required until the building occupancy
               reaches 50.

               (h)

               Regulation of sexually oriented businesses.

               (1)

               No sexually oriented business shall be allowed within 1,000 feet of:

               a.

               A church, rectory or place of worship;

               b.

               A public or private elementary or secondary school;

               c.

               A boundary of a residential district;

               d.

               A public park;

               e.

               A child care center;

               f.

               The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use; or

               g.

               Another sexually oriented business.

               (2)

               For the purpose of subsections (h)(1)a.— f., measurement shall be made in a straight
               line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion
               of the building or structure used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented
               business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed
               in subsections (h)(1)a.— f.. For the purpose of subsection (h)(1)g., the distance
               between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
               without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall
               of the structure in which each business is located.

               (3)

               No sexually oriented business shall be operated in any building or structure containing
               another sexually oriented business.

               (4)

               No sexually oriented business shall begin operations until the applicant thereof provides
               proof of compliance with V.T.C.A., Local Government [Code] § 42-243.0075.

               (5)

               Any sexually oriented business that is in violation of subsection (h)(1) or any other
               location requirement of any other city ordinance, that was legally operating on the
               effective date of adoption or amendment of such ordinance or regulation, shall be
               deemed a nonconforming use, except if two or more sexually oriented businesses are
               within 1,000 feet of each other, or are located in the same building or structure,
               and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business that was first
               established and continually operating as a sexually oriented business at a particular
               location (regardless of which business was first located in the city), even if operating
               under a different name, ownership, or selling different sexually oriented merchandise
               or services, is the conforming use and the later-established business is nonconforming.
               The provisions of this subsection shall also apply to legally operating sexually oriented
               businesses made nonconforming by annexation into the city limits.

               (6)

               Any sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating within the city as a conforming
               use on or after March 16, 2015 shall not be rendered a nonconforming use by the subsequent
               location of a protected use listed in subsection (h)(1) within 1,000 feet of the sexually
               oriented business.

               (7)

               Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the amortization of a nonconforming
               sexually oriented businesses pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter.

               (8)

               A nonconforming sexually oriented business shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
               or altered except that the use may be changed to a use other than a sexually oriented
               business to the extent allowed by this chapter. A person commits an offense if he
               increases, enlarges, extends or alters, or causes to be increased, enlarged, extended
               or altered a nonconforming sexually oriented business.

               (i)

               Mobile food vendors.

               (1)

               Vehicle requirements.

               a.

               All mobile food units shall be readily identifiable by business name, printed in bold
               letters not less than three inches in height, not less than one and one-half inches
               in width, permanently affixed, and prominently displayed upon at least two sides of
               the unit.

               b.

               All mobile food units shall maintain a current state motor vehicle inspection sticker
               and a current Texas motor vehicle license plate registration sticker.

               c.

               All mobile food units must be readily moveable (capable of moving immediately upon
               the request of the code enforcement officer).

               d.

               Mobile food vendors who only sell prepackaged goods on their mobile food units shall
               not remain parked in one location for longer than three hours. No time restriction
               shall apply for mobile food vendors who prepare food on their mobile food unit.

               (2)

               Restroom access and trash receptacles. Mobile food vendors who prepare food on their mobile food unit shall:

               a.

               Provide one or more trash receptacles for disposal of waste from customers, and shall
               provide for the disposal of such waste; and

               b.

               Provide access to restroom facilities for customers within 300 feet of the mobile
               food unit.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-46—42-54.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IV.,SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS,NULL
Sec. 42-1.,"Interpretation, purposes, and administration.","(a)

               Purpose. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be
               held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
               safety, morals and welfare. The zoning regulations and districts as herein established
               have been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan, for the purpose of promoting
               the health, safety, morals and welfare of the city. This chapter has been designed,
               among other things, to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
               panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
               of the land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate
               provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, open spaces, and to
               protect and enhance historical, cultural and environmental qualities, and other public
               requirements. They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other things;
               of the right to use the land subject to reasonable regulations; of the character of
               the district and its peculiar suitability for the particular uses specified; and with
               a view of conserving the value of land and buildings and encouraging the most appropriate
               use of land throughout the city consistent with the comprehensive plan.

               (b)

               Zoning administration. The zoning administrator is charged with the administration and interpretation of
               this chapter. In the event that this chapter or any provision hereof is unclear as
               to its applicability to any property or person, the zoning administrator shall render
               an interpretation of the ordinance or provision after taking into consideration the
               purpose and intent of the ordinance as a whole. The decision of the zoning administrator
               shall be subject to review by the board of adjustment as provided in section 42-95.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-2.,Scope of chapter.,"The provisions of this zoning chapter and the regulations in the districts established
               herein constitute minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
               morals and general welfare of the city. Wherever higher or more restrictive standards
               are established by provisions of any other applicable statute, ordinance or regulation
               than is established by the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of such other
               statute, ordinance or regulation shall govern.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-3.,Compliance with zoning regulations.,"(a)

               Compliance with zoning regulations required. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all property located within the city
               shall only be occupied, used, erected, altered, converted, arranged or designed in
               conformance with the zoning regulations prescribed for the zoning district in which
               such property is located as hereinafter provided.

               (b)

               Building permits prohibited without plat. No permit for the construction or placement of a building upon any property shall
               be issued unless the property is part of a plat of record, properly approved by the
               planning and zoning commission and city council and filed in the plat records of the
               county.

               (c)

               Exclusions. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, or
               designated use of a building under construction at the time the provisions of this
               chapter become applicable provided the entire building shall be completed within one
               year from the date of the passage of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.

               (d)

               One main building on a lot or tract. Only one main building for one-family or two-family use with permitted accessory
               buildings may be located upon any lot or tract. Every dwelling shall face or front
               upon a public street or approved means of access other than an alley, which street
               or approved means of access shall have a minimum width of 30 feet. Where a lot is
               used for retail or multifamily dwelling purposes, more than one main building may
               be located upon the lot but only when such buildings conform to all the open space,
               parking, density, and other development requirements applicable to the uses in the
               district in which it is located. Whenever two or more main buildings, or portions
               thereof, are placed upon a single lot or tract and such buildings will not face upon
               a public street, the same may be permitted when the site plan for such development
               is approved by the city council. No parking area, yard, or required open space for
               one building shall be computed as being the open space, yard, or area requirements
               for any other use.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-4.,Zoning districts.,"(a)

               Purpose. In order to regulate and restrict the location of trades and industries, the use
               of land and buildings, and the location of buildings erected, placed, reconstructed,
               altered or enlarged for specified uses; to regulate and limit the height and bulk
               of buildings; to regulate and determine the area of yards and other open spaces; to
               regulate and limit the density of population; and to otherwise assure that adjoining
               and adjacent uses of land are compatible, the city is hereby divided into the following
               zoning districts:

                              A

                              Agricultural District

                              SF-1

                              Single-Family Residential District

                              SF-2

                              Single-Family Residential District

                              GH

                              Garden Home District

                              MH-1

                              Manufactured Home Park District

                              MH-2

                              Manufactured Home Subdivision District

                              MH-3

                              Manufactured Home Subdivision District

                              TF

                              Two-family Residential (Duplex) District

                              MF

                              Multifamily Residential District

                              C-1

                              Commercial District—Office, light retail and neighborhood services

                              C-2

                              General Commercial District

                              M-1

                              Light Manufacturing/Industrial District

                              M-2

                              Heavy Manufacturing/Industrial District

                              CBD

                              Central Business District

                              I

                              Institutional District

                              PD

                              Planned Development District

                              FP

                              Flood plain District

               &nbsp;

               (b)

               Uses permitted by district. Land and buildings in each of the zoning districts may be used for any of the indicated
               uses in that district but no land shall hereafter be used, and no building or structure
               shall hereafter be occupied, used erected, altered, converted, arranged or designed
               for other than those uses specified as permitted uses in the district in which it
               is located.

               (c)

               Description of zoning districts.

               (1)

               A—Agricultural district. The A district provides for the continuance of farming, ranching, and commercial
               gardening activities on land being utilized for these purposes. When land in an agricultural
               district is needed for urban purposes, it is anticipated the zoning will be changed
               to the appropriate zoning district to provide for orderly growth and development in
               accordance with the comprehensive plan. See section 42-20 for A agricultural district regulations.

               (2)

               SF-1—Single-family residential district. The SF-1 district provides for a minimum residential building site of 7,500 square
               feet. Density in this district will usually be no greater than four units per gross
               acre. See section 42-21 for SF-1 single-family residential district regulations.

               (3)

               SF-2—Single-family residential district. The SF-2 district provides for a minimum residential building site of 6,000 square
               feet and permits residential development of densities ranging from four to six units
               per gross acre. See section 42-22 for SF-2 single-family residential district regulations.

               (4)

               GH—Garden home district. The GH district allows for more flexible development of single-family subdivisions
               with homes being built on small lots with zero lot lines. See section 42-23 for GH garden home district regulations.

               (5)

               TF—Two-family residential (duplex) district. The TF district provides for stable, quality residential development, including duplex,
               garden (patio) home, and similar residential development with densities ranging from
               four to eight units per gross acre. See section 42-27 for TF two-family residential (duplex) district regulations.

               (6)

               MH-1—Manufactured home park district. The MH-1 district establishes a category in which manufactured home park development
               with a maximum density of approximately five to six units per gross acre can occur.
               See section 42-24 for MH-1—manufactured home park district regulations.

               (7)

               MH-2—Manufactured home subdivision district. The MH-2 district establishes a category in which a tract can be platted and developed
               with lots sold to persons seeking to locate manufactured homes, and/or standard single-family
               units. The MH-2 district permits residential development of densities ranging from
               four to six units per gross acre. See section 42-25 for MH-1 manufactured home subdivision district regulations.

               (8)

               MH-3—Manufactured home subdivision district. The MH-3 district allows for manufactured home subdivisions with a more flexible
               design than the MH-2 district. As with the MH-2 district, it is interpreted to provide
               characteristics and atmosphere similar to a single-family subdivision. See section 42-26 for MH-3 manufactured home subdivision district regulations.

               (9)

               MF—Multifamily residential district. The MF district permits multifamily developments of maximum densities of 15 units
               per acre, except under special mitigation conditions. See section 42-28 for MF multifamily residential district regulations.

               (10)

               C-1—Commercial district—Office, light retail, and neighborhood services. Retail, commercial, and office uses developed under the standards of the C-1 district
               are designed to provide a compatible relationship between the C-1 development and
               adjacent residential areas. See section 42-29 for C-1 commercial district—Office, light retail, and neighborhood services regulations.

               (11)

               C-2—General commercial district. Uses which require considerable space for display, sales, or open storage, or by
               the nature of the use are generally not compatible with residential uses, are located
               in the C-2 district. See section 42-30 for C-2 general commercial district regulations.

               (12)

               CBD—Central business district. The CBD is established to accommodate the unique characteristics of the historical
               center of the city and to ensure that future development in the CBD is compatible
               with maintaining the economic and historic integrity of the area. The central business
               district is designed to provide an area for shopping, dining, working, and entertainment
               which will remain active during evenings and weekends as well as standard work hours.
               See section 42-33 for CBD central business district regulations.

               (13)

               M-1—Light manufacturing/industrial district. The M-1 district is established to accommodate uses of a non-nuisance type located
               in relatively close proximity to residential and C-1 business areas. Development in
               the M-1 district is limited primarily to certain wholesale, jobbing, and warehouse
               uses and certain specialized manufacturing and research uses of a type which will
               not create nuisances, as well as any commercial uses. See section 42-31 for M-1 light manufacturing/industrial district regulations.

               (14)

               M-2—Heavy manufacturing/industrial district. The M-2 district is established to accommodate industrial uses not appropriate for
               inclusion in the M-1 district and likely to create noise, traffic, odor and/or other
               conditions incompatible with most residential and commercial uses. See section 42-32 for M-2 heavy manufacturing/industrial district regulations.

               (15)

               I—Institutional district. The I district is established to accommodate uses of a generally noncommercial institutional
               and/or group quarters character. Such uses typically have residential characteristics
               or have symbiotic relationships with residential neighborhoods. See section 42-34 for I institutional district regulations.

               (16)

               PD—Planned development district. The PD district provides a zoning category for the planning and development of larger
               tracts of land or tracts of land with unique characteristics for a single use or combination
               of uses requiring flexibility and variety in design to achieve orderly development
               with due respect for the protection of surrounding property. See section 42-35 for PD planned development district regulations.

               (17)

               FP—Floodplain district. Zoning districts located in flood hazard areas which are subject to periodic inundation
               shall be preceded by the prefix FP, indicating a subdistrict. Areas designated FP
               may be used only for those uses listed in section 42-36 until a use in any area or any portion thereof located in FP subdistrict has been
               approved by the city council. Approval shall only be given after engineering studies
               determine that the area, or any portion thereof, is suitable for uses in the district,
               and building construction or development would not create an obstruction to drainage
               nor a hazard to life or property, and that such construction is not contrary to the
               public interest. See section 42-36 for FP floodplain district regulations.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-59.,Fences.,"(a)

               No fence or hedge shall exceed four feet in height in the required front yard in any
               district.

               (b)

               No fence shall exceed eight feet in height, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.

               (c)

               Fences shall be constructed of customary urban fencing materials and shall be aesthetically
               consistent with buildings and fences in the area.

               (d)

               Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, where subdivisions are platted
               so that the rear yards of residentially zoned lots, including but not limited to SF-1,
               SF-2, GH, TF, MH-1, MH-2, MH-3, MF, and residential PD, are adjacent and back to a
               dedicated roadway, the developer shall provide, at his sole expense, a brick or decorative
               solid masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet located on the street right-of-way
               line.

               (1)

               When a brick or masonry wall is erected adjacent to a dedicated roadway, the color
               of the wall shall be uniform and/or compatible on both sides of a street between two
               intersecting streets. When walls are built in sections, the color shall be as closely
               similar as possible, but shall in no case be incompatible.

               (2)

               All brick and masonry screening walls shall be placed on an engineered concrete footing,
               with provision for drainage under the wall. Masonry or brick columns shall be expressed
               at a minimum of 30 feet on centers and should typically be taller than the remainder
               of the wall. The exterior of all sides of each wall shall be finished with the same
               material and shall be similar in appearance. Developers are encouraged to create offsets
               in brick or decorative masonry walls to provide visual variety. At development and
               subdivision entry features, all walls and raised planter beds shall be of brick or
               decorative masonry construction.

               (3)

               Developers are encouraged to create offsets in brick or masonry walls to provide visual
               variety.

               (e)

               No fence shall impede the visibility of or from any point of ingress or egress to
               any parking lot or driveway or any intersection of a street or highway.

               (f)

               On any corner lot for which front and side yards are required, no wall or fence shall
               cause danger or hazard to traffic by obstructing the view of the intersection from
               a point 30 feet back from the right-of-way corner. Visual clearance shall be provided
               in all zoning districts so that no fence or wall obstructs the vision of a motor vehicle
               driver approaching any street, alley or driveway intersection.

               (g)

               Prohibited materials. Electrical fences or electrical attachments of any type designed to administer a
               shock, shall not be constructed within the legal limits of the city. Permanent barbed
               wire and razor wire fences of any type or dimension shall not be constructed within
               the legal limits of the city. Vee arms or base and arms with barbed wire not to exceed
               three strands will be permitted in all districts except SF-1, SF-2, GH, TF, MH-1,
               MH-2, MH-3, MF, or any residential planned development and said attachments shall
               be considered as part of the fence in determining the height of the fence and shall
               not protrude over property lines. The lowest strand of barbed wire shall be a minimum
               of six feet above ground level.

               (h)

               Temporary fences. Temporary fencing for the purpose of protecting or securing of construction sites
               shall be allowed and must be removed at the completion of the project.

               (i)

               Inspection. When a fence is completed it must be inspected. The office of the building official
               shall be notified upon completion of the fence. The building official will issue a
               card of acceptance if the fence complies with the provisions of this chapter or it
               will be rejected. All fences constructed under the provisions of this chapter shall
               be maintained so as to comply with the requirements of this chapter at all times.

               (j)

               Existing fences. Any fence constructed prior to enactment or amendment of this chapter will not be
               restricted by this chapter. Any fence constructed at any time on property not within
               the city, but annexed by the city at a later date will not be restricted by this chapter.
               Any fence reconstruction, modifications, enlargements, extensions, alterations or
               any construction other than maintenance of the fence as it existed at the time of
               enactment or amendment of this chapter or annexation of property containing the fence
               shall be regulated by this chapter.

               (k)

               Emergency ingress and egress required. In order to allow ingress/egress of emergency and maintenance personnel and equipment,
               at least one self-closing and self-latching gate or opening not less than three feet
               in width shall be required with each fence or wall that is adjacent to or running
               parallel with a public right-of-way, alley, drainage, utility or access easement.
               One such opening is required for each lot or in cases when the lot frontage is greater
               than 200 feet, an opening or gate shall be located not more than 200 feet from another
               opening on the same property. Double frontage lots shall be required to have an opening
               only on the street used as the frontage for the property.

               (l)

               Property owners' responsibility. The construction of a fence or wall on the property line shall not negate the owners'
               responsibility to maintain and keep the following specified areas free and clear of
               debris and high weeds:

               (1)

               The area between the fence and the extension of the property line to the back of curb
               or edge of pavement.

               (2)

               The area between the fence and the property line or between parallel fences.

               (m)

               Maintenance of fences. The owner or any person who has a fence shall be responsible for maintaining the
               fence in a neat and functional condition.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-60—42-69.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE V.,SPECIFIC USES PERMITS,NULL
Sec. 42-5.,Zoning district map.,"The districts aforesaid, and the boundaries of such districts, shall be as hereinafter
               described, and as shown upon the map attached hereto and made a part of this chapter,
               said map being designated as the ""Zoning Map of the City of Alvarado, Texas."" The
               map and all notations, references, and other information shown thereon shall be a
               part of this chapter the same as if all such matters and information were fully described
               herein. The original of said map shall bear the date of the passing of the ordinance
               from which this chapter is derived and shall be signed by the mayor and attested by
               the city secretary, under the seal of the city. The original map shall be kept in
               the office of the city secretary in the city hall, and a replica thereof shall be
               produced upon paper or other format in such reduced scale as will permit it being
               attached to this chapter.

               It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to keep the official zoning map and
               current copies up to date, by entering on such map any changes which the city council
               may from time to time approve by amendments to the zoning ordinance. A written record
               (logbook) shall be kept by the zoning administrator of all changes made to the zoning
               district map.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-7.,Newly annexed territory.,"An area being annexed into the city shall ordinarily be given permanent zoning concurrently
               with the annexation. In the event that any territory is annexed into the city without
               zoning being concurrently established, the annexed territory shall be temporarily
               classified in the A agricultural district until permanent zoning classifications are
               given to the area by the city council. The procedure for establishing appropriate
               zoning on any annexed territory shall be the same as set forth in section 42-96 for the amendment of the zoning ordinance.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-6.,Zoning district boundaries.,"(a)

               Rules of interpretation. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts,
               as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:

               (1)

               The district boundaries are either streets, alleys, or railroad right-of-way unless
               otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the zoning map are bounded
               approximately by street or alley lines, the centerline of said street or alley shall
               be construed to be the boundary of such district. Where the districts designated on
               the zoning map are bounded approximately by railroad or utility right-of-way lines
               or public rights-of-way, the center line of the railroad or utility right-of-way or
               the public right-of-way shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.

               (2)

               Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the property has
               been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the district boundaries shall
               be construed to be lot lines, and where the districts designated on the zoning map
               are bounded approximately by lot lines, said lot line shall be construed to be the
               boundary of such districts unless said boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.

               (3)

               In un-subdivided property, the district boundary lines on the zoning map shall be
               determined by use of the scale contained on such map, unless dimensions are shown.

               (4)

               Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits shall be construed
               as following the city limits.

               (5)

               Boundaries indicated as following the centerlines of streams or rivers or the shoreline
               of lakes or ponds shall be construed as following such centerlines or shorelines as
               the case may be.

               (6)

               Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by official action of the
               city council, or whenever such area is franchised for building purposes, the zoning
               district line adjoining each side of such street, alley, or other public way shall
               be automatically extended to the centerline of such vacated street, alley or way and
               all area so involved shall then and henceforth be subject to all regulations of the
               extended districts.

               (7)

               Where physical features on the ground are at variance with information shown on the
               official zoning map, or if there arises a question as to how a parcel of property
               is zoned and such question cannot be resolved by the application of subsections (a)(1)—(6),
               or if the zoning of property is invalidated by a final judgment of a court of competent
               jurisdiction, the property shall be considered classified as A agricultural district
               until rezoned.

               (b)

               Procedure. The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make determinations of zoning
               district boundaries based not the above rules, subject to appeal to the board of adjustment
               as provided in section 42-95(c).

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-8.,Consistency with comprehensive plan.,"(a)

               Review of zoning. As the zoning ordinance is one implementation tool for the city's comprehensive plan,
               the zoning ordinance shall be kept current and consistent with the goals and objectives
               of the comprehensive plan. Consequently, it shall be the policy of the city council
               that during the review of the comprehensive plan the appropriate implementation committee
               shall review the zoning on all undeveloped parcels of land to determine if the zoning
               in effect at the time is appropriate. If there are undeveloped parcels with zoning
               which has been in effect for at least ten years and if, in the committee's opinion,
               zoning is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan and no longer appropriate, a recommendation
               shall be made that a public hearing be called to review said zoning. Proceedings may
               then be initiated to amend the ordinance as specified in section 42-96.

               (b)

               Amendment of comprehensive plan. If a rezoning of any property shall be requested which is contrary to the comprehensive
               plan, during the review process for such rezoning request consideration shall be given
               for amendment to the comprehensive plan. In the event the city council determines
               that the requested zoning promotes the public health, safety, morals and welfare and
               should be approved, the city council may require the applicant to apply for an amendment
               to the comprehensive plan concurrently with the request for rezoning.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-9.,Rules of construction and definitions.,Content is too large for cell.
DIVISION 2.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (4) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 2, §§ 42-209—42-213, in its entirety.
               Former div. 2 pertained to ""A—Agricultural District"" and was derived from Ord. No.
               2004-028, §§ 7.1—7.5, adopted February 17, 2004."
Secs. 42-209—42-234.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 3.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (5) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 3, §§ 42-235—42-240, in its entirety.
               Former div. 3 pertained to ""SF-1—Single-Family Residential District-1"" and was derived
               from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 8.1—8.6, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2009-002,
               §§ 2C(8.5), 2C(8.6), adopted January 19, 2009 and Ord. No. 2011-002, § 1, adopted
               February 21, 2011."
Secs. 42-235—42-258.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 42-10.,Classification of new and unlisted uses.,"(a)

               Classification of new and unlisted uses. It is recognized that new types of land uses will develop and forms of land use not
               anticipated may seek to locate in the city. The zoning administrator shall review
               any request for approval of a use that is not specifically listed as a permitted use
               in any zoning district. If in the determination of the zoning administrator the use
               is substantially similar in nature and impact to a listed use, the zoning administrator
               may make a determination, under his authority to render interpretations of the provisions
               of this chapter, of the district or districts where such use is appropriate to locate.
               The determination of the zoning administrator is subject to review by the board of
               adjustment in accordance with the provisions of section 42-95.

               (b)

               Determination of classification by planning and zoning commission. If the zoning administrator determines that such new or unlisted use is not substantially
               similar in nature and impact to a listed use, a determination as to the appropriate
               classification of any new or unlisted form of land use shall be made as follows:

               (1)

               The zoning administrator shall refer the question concerning any new or unlisted use
               to the planning and zoning commission requesting an interpretation as to the zoning
               classification into which such use should be placed. The referral of the use interpretation
               question shall be accompanied by a statement of facts listing the nature of the use
               and whether it involves dwelling activity, sales, processing, type of product, storage,
               and amount and nature thereof, enclosed or open storage, anticipated employment, transportation
               requirements, the amount of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic material and vibration
               likely to be generated, and the general requirements for public utilities such as
               water and sanitary sewer. Notice of the request for interpretation shall be given
               in the manner provided for zoning text amendments in order for the ultimate determination
               of classification to be considered as a text amendment.

               (2)

               The planning and zoning commission shall consider the nature and described performance
               of the proposed use and its compatibility with the uses permitted in the various districts,
               and determine the zoning district or districts within which such use should be permitted.

               (3)

               The planning and zoning commission shall transmit its findings and recommendations
               to the city council as to the classification proposed for any new or unlisted use.
               The city council may, by ordinance, approve the recommendation of the commission or
               make such determination concerning the classification of such use as is determined
               appropriate.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-11—42-19.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE II.,DISTRICTS AND LAND USES,NULL
Sec. 42-36.,FP floodplain district.,"(a)

               Purpose. The FP district is an overlay district shown as a prefix on other designated zoning
               districts. This district is designed to allow for reasonable uses of land which has
               a history of inundation or is determined to be subject to flood hazard while protecting
               the public health, safety and welfare by preventing the flooding of incompatible uses.

               (b)

               Permitted uses and parking regulations. In any zoning district that is overlayed with the FP prefix, no building or land
               shall be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, placed, reconstructed, altered
               or enlarged, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:

                              USE

                              PARKING REGULATIONS

                              Bridle, bicycle or nature trail

                              To be determined by the City Council

                              Electrical substation

                              1 space per employee

                              Farm, ranch, or orchard, but excluding the construction of barns or other outbuildings

                              1 space per employee

                              Local utilities (all types, including those requiring specific use permits)

                              1 space per employee

                              Parks, playgrounds, public golf courses (no structures), and other recreational areas

                              1 space per acre plus a minimum of 30 spaces for golf courses

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Structures, installations and facilities for flood control purposes

                              1 space per employee

               &nbsp;

               (c)

               Development requirements.

                              Minimum lot area:

                              None

                              Minimum lot width:

                              None

                              Minimum lot depth:

                              None

                              Minimum front yard:

                              None

                              Minimum side yard:

                              None

                              Minimum rear yard:

                              None

                              Maximum ground coverage:

                              None

                              Maximum density per acre:

                              None

                              Height:

                              None

               &nbsp;

               (d)

               Specific uses. The following specific uses are allowed in the FP district when authorized under
               the provisions of section 42-45:

               (1)

               Any use approved by the city council that is in compliance with the city's floodplain
               regulations and that is determined to not have an adverse effect on public health,
               safety and welfare.

               (2)

               Parking regulations are to be established by the city council.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-37.,"SFA, single family—Attached dwelling district.","(a)

               Purpose. The SFA single family—Attached dwelling district is established to provide adequate
               space for medium density, single-family attached type residential development, on
               lots of not less than 1,600 square feet.

               (b)

               Primary uses allowed. In the SFA single family—Attached dwelling district, no building or land shall be
               used and no building constructed, reconstructed, altered or enlarged, unless otherwise
               provided in this section, except for one or more of the following uses:

                              Accessory building to main use

                              0 spaces

                              Carport

                              0 spaces

                              Concrete, asphalt batching plant (allowed only on a temporary basis in a new subdivision
                              composed of no less than 100 lots, to cease upon completion and dedication of the
                              streets, )

                              1 space for each 2 employees on the maximum working shift, plus space to accommodate
                              all vehicles used in connection therewith, but not less than 1 space for each 1,000
                              square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater

                              Electrical transmission line

                              0 spaces

                              Greenhouse or plant nursery, noncommercial

                              1 space per employee

                              Home occupation

                              0 spaces

                              Local utility distribution lines

                              0 spaces

                              Park, playground or recreation center (public or private)

                              1 space per acre plus additional parking per facility constructed as herein provided

                              Private open space as a part of a planned residential development

                              0 spaces required

                              Railroad track and right-of-way

                              1 space per employee

                              Sewage pumping station

                              0 spaces

                              Single-family dwelling, detached

                              2 spaces per unit

                              Swimming pool, private

                              0 spaces

                              Telephone line

                              0 spaces

                              Transit station or turnaround

                              1 space per intended user

                              Water pumping station or well

                              0 spaces

               &nbsp;

               Development requirements.

                                 Minimum lot area:

                                 1,600 square feet

                                 Minimum lot width:

                                 20 linear feet

                                 Minimum lot depth:

                                 80 linear feet

                                 Minimum front yard:

                                 15/25 linear feet
                                 
                                    1

                                 Minimum side yard:

                                 0/5/10/15 linear feet
                                 
                                    2

                                 Minimum rear yard:

                                 10/25 linear feet
                                 
                                    3

                                 Maximum ground coverage:

                                 60

                                 Height:

                                 35 vertical feet

                  &nbsp;

                  1
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a front yard abutting
               a residential street; the second number in the column is the required setback for
               a front yard abutting a collector or major street.

                  2
                  
                The first number in the column is the required setback for a side yard for an interior
               unit, the second number is the required setback for a side yard not abutting a street;
               the third number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a residential street;
               the fourth number is the required setback for a side yard abutting a collector or
               major street.

                  3
                  
                A one-story wing or extension may be built to within 10 feet of the rear lot line.

               (c)

               Special construction requirements.

               (1)

               All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products, and/or glass. It is provided, however,
               that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed
               of other materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other
               material shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (2)

               Applicability of regulations. These construction requirements shall apply to all the
               following:

               a.

               Newly constructed houses.

               b.

               Houses moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (3)

               Attic space. All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space
               from the attic floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (4)

               Living space. Each individual unit must have at least 800 square feet of living space.

               (d)

               Landscaping. Landscaping shall be in compliance with section 42-834.

               (e)

               Parking. Parking shall be in compliance with Article III — Stopping, Standing and Parking.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2016-010, § 1, 5-16-2016
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-70.,Purpose.,"The purpose of the specific use permitting procedure is to allow for review of uses
               which would not be appropriate generally or without certain restrictions throughout
               a zoning district, but which, if controlled as to the number, area, location or relation
               to the neighborhood would promote the health, safety, and welfare of the community.
               The procedure is intended to allow broad public review and evaluation of the proposed
               development and to ensure adequate mitigation of potentially unfavorable impacts.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-71.,Submission and approval requirements and procedure.,"(a)

               A property owner may petition the city for a specific use of property, as authorized
               by the zoning district in which the property is located. An application for a specific
               use permit shall be submitted to the zoning administrator, along with any applicable
               fee. The application shall include a site plan meeting the requirements of section 42-56, and showing the general arrangements of the project, together with essential requirements
               such as off-street parking facilities; size, height, construction materials and locations
               of buildings; the uses to be permitted; location and construction of signs; means
               of ingress and egress to public streets; visual screening such as walls, landscaping,
               and fences; and the relationship of the intended use to all existing properties and
               land uses in all directions to a minimum distance of 200 feet.

               (b)

               The same notice, hearing and approval requirements as for changes and amendments to
               a zoning district classification shall apply to approval of a specific use permit;
               provided, however, that the approval of a specific use permit shall not be considered
               a change in zoning.

               (c)

               The zoning administrator shall review the application and submit a report to the planning
               and zoning commission. This report shall be made available to the applicant prior
               to the public hearing. After proper notice and a public hearing, the planning and
               zoning commission shall make a recommendation to the city council regarding any application
               for a specific use permit. The planning and zoning commission may require information,
               operating data, and expert evaluation concerning the location, function and characteristics
               of any building or use proposed.

               (d)

               The city council may approve a specific use by adoption of an ordinance. The ordinance
               shall set forth any limitations or conditions which the city council may place upon
               the specific use. Only those specific uses authorized in the district in which the
               property is located may be approved.

               (e)

               The planning and zoning commission and the city council shall review the application
               against the review and evaluation criteria set forth below and approve, conditionally
               approve, or deny the specific use application.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-72.,Review and evaluation criteria.,"The specific use application shall be reviewed and evaluated using the following criteria:

                  (1)

                  Conformance with applicable regulations and standards in this zoning chapter.

                  (2)

                  Compatibility with existing or permitted uses on abutting sites in terms of building
                  height, bulk, scale, setbacks, open spaces, landscaping and site development, and
                  access and circulation features.

                  (3)

                  Potentially unfavorable effects or impacts on existing or permitted uses on adjacent
                  properties, to the extent such impacts exceed those which reasonably may result from
                  use of the site by a permitted use.

                  (4)

                  Location, lighting, and type of signs and relation of signs to traffic control and
                  adverse effect on adjacent properties.

                  (5)

                  Safety and convenience of vehicular and pedestrian circulation in the vicinity, including
                  traffic reasonably expected to be generated by the proposed use and other uses reasonably
                  anticipated in the area considering existing zoning and land uses in the area.

                  (6)

                  The city council shall authorize issuance of a specific use permit only after determining
                  that the proposed use or uses are harmonious with buildings and uses of adjacent property
                  in the vicinity of the premises under consideration and that adequate provisions have
                  been made for the paving of streets, alleys, and sidewalks, means of access to public
                  streets, provisions for drainage, adequate off-street parking, protective screening
                  and open space, height of structures, and compatibility of buildings.

                  (7)

                  No specific use permit shall be granted unless the applicant, owner, and grantee of
                  the specific use permit shall be willing to accept and agree to be bound by and comply
                  with the written requirements of the permit, as attached to the site plan drawing
                  and approved by the city council.

                  (8)

                  When the city council approves a specific use permit, the zoning map shall be amended
                  according to its legend to indicate that the property is subject to the specific use
                  permit.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
ARTICLE VIII.,DISTRICT REGULATIONS,"Footnotes:  --- (2) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , renumbered art. III as art. VIII. See editor's note at beginning of this chapter."
Sec. 42-73.,Lapse of approval and modifications.,"(a)

               A specific use permit shall be valid for one year from the date of approval unless
               prior to such expiration date a building permit is issued and construction is commenced
               or the actual use, if not requiring a building permit, is commenced. The expiration
               date may be extended by the city council upon application. An inspection of the property
               granted a specific use permit shall be performed one year after such grant to determine
               whether the use has been commenced and whether all conditions of the permit have been
               complied with.

               (b)

               Approval of a specific use permit automatically expires upon any of the following:

               (1)

               A change in use on the property; or

               (2)

               A relocation of the use.

               The city council may grant a continuance of the specific use upon application.

               (c)

               Minor modifications to a specific use permit may be made if the zoning administrator
               determines that such modifications will not change the intent and effect of the approval
               by the city council.

               (d)

               A specific use permit for a stationary vendor, as defined in subsection 42-9(b), shall be subject to the following additional conditions:

               (1)

               The permit shall be limited to a period of one year unless additional time is allowed
               by the city council.

               (2)

               The applicant must show that the applicant has the written permission of the property
               owner to engage in the vending activities.

               (3)

               Any temporary structures associated with the use must comply with the city's building
               code and must be removed within two days after the specific use permit expires.

               (4)

               Food vendors must comply with conditions established by the health officer.

               (5)

               The applicant must hold a valid sales and use tax permit from the state.

               Exception: A specific use permit is not required for a stationary vendor to make sales
               at a special event if the city has issued a permit for the special event and the permit
               holder has authorized the stationary vendor to make sales at the special event.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-74—42-79.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VI.,"NONCONFORMING USES, LOTS AND STRUCTURES",NULL
DIVISION 20.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (18) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 20, §§ 42-715, 42-716, in its entirety.
               Former div. 20 pertained to ""Specific Use Permit"" and was derived from Ord. No. 2004-028,
               §§ 25.1, 25.2, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2010-003, § 2(C), adopted February
               15, 2010 and Ord. No. 2010-024, § 2, adopted October 18, 2010."
Sec. 42-80.,Purpose and intent.,"Within the districts established by this chapter, there may exist buildings or uses
               of land and buildings (nonconforming uses) which were lawful before this chapter was
               passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the
               terms of this chapter or future amendments. Such nonconforming uses may be continued
               although they do not conform with the provisions of this chapter, subject to the limitations
               and conditions set forth in this section. However, such nonconforming uses are declared
               by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
               With due regard for the property rights of the persons affected when considered in
               light of the public welfare, the character of the area surrounding the nonconforming
               use and the conservation and preservation of surrounding properties and their values,
               it is the declared purpose of this chapter that nonconforming uses be eliminated and
               be required to conform to the regulations prescribed in this chapter.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-81.,Continuation of use.,"(a)

               Nonconforming uses or structures. Any use or structure that existed as a nonconforming or previously conforming use
               or structure under applicable zoning regulations prior to adoption of this chapter
               shall be permitted to continue as a nonconforming use or structure, subject to the
               provisions of this section.

               (b)

               Exemptions to nonconforming regulations. Any use that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter that require the
               use to have a specific use permit, but which existed as a conforming use without a
               specific use permit under applicable zoning regulations prior to the adoption of this
               chapter, shall be permitted to continue as a nonconforming us. In the event such a
               use is replaced by or changed to a use conforming to the provisions of this chapter,
               the nonconforming use shall be considered void and only uses conforming to this chapter
               will be permitted thereafter. The burden of proof that the exemption provided by this
               section exists shall rest on the property owner.

               (c)

               Illegal use or structures. By adoption of this chapter, no presently illegal use or structure shall be deemed
               to have been legalized unless such use or structure falls within a district where
               the actual use and structure conform to the provisions of this chapter.

               (d)

               Building on nonconforming lots of record. In any zoning district, buildings may be erected on any single lot of record, provided
               there is access to such buildings from a street and the lot is in the same ownership
               as recorded on the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
               This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the minimum requirements
               for area, width, or depth for the district in which it is located; however, all other
               requirements shall still apply. All buildings constructed on nonconforming lots of
               record shall meet all development regulations in the district unless proper variances
               are granted by the board of adjustment. No building shall be constructed on multiple
               lots. Whenever construction is desired on multiple lots, the property owner shall
               replat the property into a single lot.

               (e)

               Nonconforming buildings. Repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building, provided that no
               structural alterations shall be made except those required by law or ordinance, unless
               the building is brought into conformity with the provisions of this chapter.

               (f)

               Nonconforming use of buildings. A nonconforming use of a building shall not be increased or enlarged and no occupancy
               of additional buildings or land by a nonconforming use shall be permitted except that
               a nonconforming use of a building may be extended throughout any parts of the building
               which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use and which were owned or leased
               by the owner of the nonconforming use on the effective date of the ordinance from
               which this chapter is derived, provided no structural alterations, except those required
               by law or ordinance, are made, and provided further that no additional dwelling units
               shall be added where the nonconforming use results from there being more dwelling
               units on the lot than is permissible in the district in which the building is located.
               The board of adjustment shall have the authority to permit an extension of a building
               which is nonconforming as to uses not to exceed 25 percent of the existing floor area,
               subject to the development regulations applicable in the zoning district.

               (g)

               Nonconforming use of land. Unless otherwise provided in this section, a nonconforming use of land may not be
               expanded, extended or moved in whole or in part, beyond the area of land actually
               being occupied by the use at the time it becomes nonconforming, except to provide
               off street loading or off street parking space facilities. Notwithstanding the above,
               the board of adjustment may permit an expansion of a nonconforming use of land on
               a lot of record not to exceed 25 percent of the existing area of the land actually
               being occupied by the nonconforming use, subject to the development regulations applicable
               in the zoning district.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-82.,Discontinuance or abandonment.,"(a)

               Defined. A nonconforming use, when discontinued or abandoned, shall not be resumed and any
               further use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Discontinuance
               or abandonment shall be defined as follows:

               (1)

               When land used for a nonconforming use shall cease to be used in a bona fide manner
               for the nonconforming use for six consecutive calendar months.

               (2)

               When a building designed or arranged for a nonconforming use shall cease to be used
               in a bona fide manner as a nonconforming use for a period of six consecutive calendar
               months.

               (3)

               When a building designed or arranged for a conforming use shall cease to be used in
               a bona fide manner as a nonconforming use for a period of six consecutive calendar
               months.

               (4)

               When land or a building used only on a seasonal basis is not used in a bona fide manner
               as a nonconforming use during such season.

               (b)

               Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the property owner intended to discontinue
               or abandon the nonconforming use if such use ceases for the above time periods.

               (c)

               Deemed to have occurred. Discontinuance or abandonment shall be conclusively deemed to have occurred irrespective
               of the intent of the property owner if the nonconforming use was dilapidated, substandard,
               or was not maintained in a suitable condition for occupancy during the above time
               periods.

               (d)

               Hardship. Upon evidence of hardship, the board of adjustment shall have the power to extend
               the time limits in subsection (a), not to exceed one year.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-83.,Destruction of nonconforming use.,"(a)

               Destruction. If a nonconforming building is destroyed by fire, the elements, or otherwise, it
               may not be reconstructed or rebuilt except to conform with the provisions of this
               chapter unless the destruction amount is less than 50 percent of its fair market value
               at the time of destruction. If a conforming building occupied by a nonconforming use
               is destroyed by fire, the elements, or otherwise, it may be reconstructed in conformity
               with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, if the destruction amount
               is more than 50 percent of its fair market value at the time of destruction, the nonconforming
               use may not continue in the building.

               (b)

               Destruction greater than 50 percent. If the destruction is greater than 50 percent and less than total, the board of adjustment
               may, after a public hearing, authorize repair, taking into consideration the property
               owner's circumstances and the effect on surrounding properties.

               (c)

               Destruction less than 50 percent. Upon submission by the owner of sufficient evidence to prove that the destruction
               of a nonconforming building amounts to less than 50 percent of the fair market value
               of the entire nonconforming use and that the destroyed building or structure constituted
               an integral part of the nonconforming use without which the nonconforming use cannot
               be profitably operated, the board of adjustment may permit the reconstruction of such
               destroyed building or buildings under conditions which reasonably allow the owner
               to recoup his original investment.

               (d)

               Single family residences. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a single family residence which
               is destroyed shall be permitted to be reconstructed without board of adjustment approval
               regardless of the extent of destruction provided that the construction complies with
               all current building codes and is commenced within six months of the date of destruction.
               The failure of the owner to start such reconstruction within six months shall forfeit
               the owner's right to restore or reconstruct the dwelling except in conformance with
               this chapter.

               (e)

               Time limit for reconstruction. If the owner of a nonconforming use fails to begin reconstruction of the destroyed
               building (when permitted to do so by the terms of this chapter) within six months
               of the date of destruction or approval by the board of adjustment, the nonconforming
               building or use shall be deemed to be discontinued or abandoned as provided in section 42-82.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-84.,Expedited compliance.,"It is the policy of the city to allow the continuance of nonconforming uses but not
               to encourage their survival. It is recognized that a nonconforming use shall be permitted
               to continue for the life of the investment made by the original builder or operator.
               No improvements or structural alterations that extend the life or expand the degree
               of non-compliance shall be permitted as a general rule. Under certain conditions the
               continued existence of a nonconforming use may create such a degree of incompatibility
               with surrounding land uses and with the intent of the city's short range, medium range
               and long range comprehensive planning that a requirement for expedited compliance
               with the zoning district regulations is necessary in the public interest. A decision
               of this nature may affect vested property rights of the property owner and, therefore,
               the following procedural requirements shall apply.

                  (1)

                  Determination of need for expedited compliance. Any city officer, board, commission or the city council may request that the board
                  of adjustment establish a zoning compliance date for a nonconforming use. Upon receiving
                  such a request, the board shall determine whether there is a public necessity for
                  expedited compliance with the zoning regulations. The board will schedule a public
                  hearing in conformance with the notice and procedural requirements established by
                  this chapter and the rules of the board. The following factors must be considered
                  by the board in determining the public necessity for expedited compliance:

                  a.

                  The character of the surrounding neighborhood.

                  b.

                  The degree of incompatibility of the nonconforming use to the zoning district in which
                  it is located.

                  c.

                  The effect of the nonconforming use on the surrounding area and the effect of its
                  cessation on that area.

                  (2)

                  Hearing requirements.

                  a.

                  Notice of the public hearing shall be given to the owner of the affected property
                  and all surrounding property owners within 200 feet of the subject property as prescribed
                  for other cases heard by the board of adjustment. All interested citizens, individuals
                  and organizations will be given the opportunity to appear before the board and present
                  evidence that they deem relevant and appropriate for the board to consider in determining
                  the need for the establishment of a compliance date for the specific nonconforming
                  use.

                  b.

                  At the conclusion of the public hearing the board shall make a finding as to whether
                  or not there is a need for expedited compliance with the zoning ordinance and shall
                  determine whether or not it is appropriate to set a date certain for the use or activity
                  to come into compliance with the current requirements of the ordinance. If the board
                  determines that there is no need for expedited compliance, it shall provide written
                  notice to the party who requested the hearing that the board has found that expedited
                  compliance is not necessary at the present time. No further action shall be taken
                  by the board and the nonconforming use shall retain its existing status. Any party
                  who disagrees with this determination by the board shall have the right to appeal
                  such decision to state district court in the same manner as any other decision of
                  the board may be presented for judicial review. Review is by writ of certiorari and
                  shall be presented in the manner set forth in V.T.C.A., Local Government Code, § 42-211.011.

                  (3)

                  Expedited compliance—Procedure for determining amortization value.

                  a.

                  If the board determines that expedited compliance is necessary and appropriate in
                  the public interest, it shall commence the proceedings necessary to establish the
                  value of the nonconforming use and a reasonable amortization period for that use.
                  The board shall initially establish a time for hearing evidence on the various value
                  and income issues necessary to comply with the amortization process. The board shall
                  give the various parties to an amortization case sufficient time to conduct discovery
                  and to prepare evidence of value, depreciation and income. To the extent deemed reasonable,
                  the board shall establish a hearing date within 60 days following the determination
                  of a need for expedited compliance. If a party believes more time is necessary to
                  prepare for the hearing, a request for continuance of the hearing may be made to the
                  chairman of the board who shall have the authority to grant a reasonable extension
                  of time.

                  b.

                  The parties may exchange written discovery requests and take, as appropriate, depositions
                  of potential witnesses. Discovery disputes will be presented to the chairman of the
                  board for resolution. The hearing to determine value and income matters relating to
                  amortization shall be subject to the same notice requirements as those established
                  for the expedited compliance hearing. The purpose of the second hearing shall be to
                  determine the value of the interest taken, if any, and whether the owner has had a
                  reasonable opportunity to recoup that value; and a reasonable compliance date. The
                  value is determined in the following manner:

                  1.

                  The board first determines the date upon which the nonconforming use came into existence
                  and/or operation.

                  2.

                  The purpose of amortization value determination is to fully recognize the investment
                  the owner made at the time that the use was legally permitted. A determination is
                  made, based on the presentment of evidence, of the initial investment made by the
                  original owner in the construction and establishment of the nonconforming use. Land
                  value is not a factor as the property owner or his successor will retain ownership
                  and the right to use the land for a legal use. The board should consider any evidence
                  establishing the amount of the investment made in the establishment of the nonconforming
                  use prior to the point in time at which it became nonconforming. Any improvement,
                  addition, expansion or change made after the date of its non-conformity shall not
                  be considered by the board, as it was made by the owner with knowledge of the limited
                  life expectancy and use of the property. Initial investment value shall not be given
                  to items that may be transported to a new site. Compensation for these items is addressed
                  as a relocation cost below.

                  3.

                  The board shall then determine the income that the property has produced annually
                  since the nonconforming use commenced. The board, at its discretion, may make findings
                  as to the annual operating cost of the nonconforming use to determine income over
                  purely operating revenue. The board shall prepare a written finding stating clearly
                  for each year that the nonconforming use has been in existence, the annual income
                  it has produced and shall further make a finding of its current annual income based
                  upon the income it produced at the close of the most recent calendar year or fiscal
                  year for which it has been in operation. If due to the age of the nonconforming use,
                  changes of ownership, or the loss or destruction of records it is not possible to
                  prepare an income finding for each year of the nonconforming use the board will make
                  a finding for each year that can be documented and will note why the missing years
                  have not been addressed. The board shall use that annual income as the current and
                  future income projection of the nonconforming use for determining amortization of
                  any remaining investment value. Any party to these proceedings shall have the right
                  to offer evidence as to why that projection is no longer realistic based upon evidence
                  of economic change.

                  4.

                  The board shall determine whether the original investment in the nonconforming use
                  is subject to depreciation due to physical and/or market conditions. The board shall
                  look at standard industry practices in determining a reasonable depreciation schedule.

                  5.

                  The board may consider any other factors or evidence that shows that the owner has
                  had a reasonable opportunity to recoup his investment in the nonconforming use.

                  6.

                  The board shall then take the original investment value determined in step number
                  2 of this process and then subtract from that number the income of the nonconforming
                  use as determined in step 3 and any depreciation of the nonconforming use as determined
                  in step 4. If the subtraction of the income of the nonconforming use from the original
                  investment value less depreciation leaves a positive figure of value remaining in
                  the tract, the board shall make a determination that there is unamortized value in
                  the nonconforming use that must be addressed by the city prior to expedited compliance.
                  If the subtraction of the income streams from the initial investment value produces
                  a negative number, then no unamortized value will remain and the board shall establish
                  a date for expedited compliance without the need to address unamortized value.

                  7.

                  All findings of the board pertaining to the value of the investment in the nonconforming
                  use and the rate of return derived by the owner must be reasonable and in accordance
                  with accepted industry practices for that type of nonconforming use. Any party may
                  offer evidence to the board in order to substantiate a reasonable value of the initial
                  investment and/or a reasonable rate of return for such nonconforming use.

                  8.

                  The board shall next determine whether the property owner will incur any costs of
                  closing down or relocating the nonconforming use. Closure or relocation cost shall
                  include only the reasonable and necessary expenses to transport items and material
                  from the site to a new location. Relocation cost does not include the cost of acquiring
                  alternate land as the property owner is retaining the land at the existing site to
                  convert to a conforming use. The cost of relocation does not include the cost of removing
                  permanent improvements such as buildings, parking areas, or public works facilities
                  that will remain on the original site for use by the owner in a conforming business
                  activity.

                  c.

                  Board findings on unamortized value and the cost of relocation. If the board makes
                  a determination that unamortized value remains in the nonconforming use by determining
                  that the original investment value minus depreciation exceeds the amount of income
                  derived from the nonconforming use during its operation through the date of the amortization
                  hearing, the board shall make the following findings as a matter of record:

                  1.

                  The dollar value of the unamortized interest remaining in the nonconforming use (original
                  investment value, minus depreciation and minus income earned during historic operation
                  of the nonconforming use).

                  2.

                  The dollar income the nonconforming use produced during its last full calendar year
                  of operation prior to the date of the hearing

                  3.

                  The dollar cost of relocating business assets or inventory.

                  4.

                  Other factors that show whether the owner has had a reasonable opportunity to recoup
                  his investment in the nonconforming use.

                  d.

                  Based upon the above factors, the board determines a calendar date upon which amortization
                  shall be deemed complete. The calendar date determined herein shall be the date upon
                  which the board determines is a reasonable period of time for the owner to have fully
                  amortized the original investment value of the nonconforming use together with the
                  closure/relocation costs that are properly chargeable to the nonconforming use.

                  e.

                  The board shall make these findings a matter of record in the minutes of the board
                  meeting in which such final determination was reached. The date upon which final amortization
                  occurs shall be the date upon which the nonconforming use shall cease to operate in
                  a nonconforming status.

                  f.

                  Under no circumstance shall a nonconforming use be given less than 90 days to cease
                  operation irrespective of the date determinations made above. The 90 day minimum is
                  to provide the nonconforming use business with the opportunity to give its customers,
                  suppliers and vendors proper notice and to permit an orderly closure and transfer
                  of business operations.

                  g.

                  The board of adjustment shall cause its findings to be transmitted to the city council
                  including whether any unamortized value remains in the nonconforming use identified
                  for expedited compliance. The city council in its sole discretion shall have the right
                  to determine if the city should appropriate funds to purchase the remaining unamortized
                  value of the nonconforming use, thereby instituting immediate closure rather than
                  waiting for the expiration of the time necessary for the automatic amortization of
                  remaining value.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-85.,Additional limitations and provisions regarding nonconforming uses.,"(a)

               Change to conforming. A nonconforming use or building, if changed to a conforming use or building, may
               not be changed back to a nonconforming use or building.

               (b)

               Accessory uses or structures. No nonconforming accessory use or structure shall continue after the principal use
               or structure shall have ceased or terminated unless the accessory use or structure
               shall thereafter conform to the provisions of the zoning district in which it is located.

               (c)

               Vested rights. Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in the plans, construction
               or designated use of a building or land development project for which a building permit
               was lawfully issued no more than six months prior to the adoption or amendment or
               this chapter, provided that such construction shall have been started at the time
               such use became nonconforming and shall have been diligently prosecuted to completion.

               (d)

               Future non-conformities. The foregoing provisions of this article shall also apply to uses made nonconforming
               by subsequent amendments to the zoning regulations or by annexation into the city
               limits.

               (e)

               Special exceptions. Any use which is approved as a specific use permit by the city council or as a special
               exception use by the board of adjustment shall, upon its establishment, be considered
               a conforming use in that district, provided that this regulation shall not be interpreted
               as to waive any conditions placed on the specific use or special exception use.

               (f)

               [Replacement.] Notwithstanding anything in this article to the contrary, a nonconforming manufactured
               home may be exchanged or replaced by another manufactured home, provided the replacement
               manufactured home is owner-occupied.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-86.,Waiver.,"The board shall have the power to approve a waiver of any required yard area or setback
               requirement when such a waiver is necessary due to a surveying or construction error
               in the placement of the original foundation or site improvement.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2014-010, § 1, 4-21-2014
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-87—42-94.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE VII.,ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT,NULL
Sec. 42-95.,Board of adjustment.,Content is too large for cell.
Sec. 42-96.,Changes and amendments.,"(a)

               Authority to amend. The city council may from time to time, after public hearings required by law, amend,
               supplement, or change the regulations herein provided or the classification or boundaries
               of the zoning districts. Any amendment, supplement, or change to the text of this
               chapter and any change in the classification or boundaries of the zoning districts,
               may be initiated by the planning and zoning commission, the city council, or may be
               requested by the owner of real property or the authorized representative of an owner
               of real property.

               (b)

               Application for rezoning.

               (1)

               Each application by a property owner for rezoning or an application for a specific
               use permit shall include a signed, notarized statement of ownership of the property
               in the following format:

               The undersigned hereby, on oath, states that he or she is the record owner of the
               property for which this application is made.

                               _____
                                 Name

                  &nbsp;

               Sworn to and subscribed before me on this _______ day of _______, 20___, by the person
               whose signature appears directly above.

               {SEAL}

                               _____
                                 Notary Public in and for the
                                 
                                 State of Texas

                  &nbsp;

               Upon filing of an application for an amendment to the zoning ordinance or a change
               in the classification or boundaries of a zoning district map, the planning and zoning
               commission shall call a public hearing on said application.

               (2)

               For changes to a zoning classification or district boundary, written notice of such
               hearing shall be sent to the owner of the property or his agent and to all owners
               of real property lying within 200 feet of the property on which the change in classification
               is proposed, such notice to be given not less than 11 days before the date of such
               hearing, to all such owners who have rendered their property for city taxes as the
               ownership appears on the last approved city tax roll. Such notice may be served by
               depositing the same, properly addressed and postage paid, in the city post office.
               Where property lying within 200 feet of the property proposed to be changed is located
               outside the city limits or in territory which was annexed to the city after the final
               date for making the renditions which are included on the last approved city tax roll,
               notice to such owners shall be given by one publication in the official newspaper
               at least 16 days before the time of hearing. Failure of owners to receive notice of
               hearing shall in no way affect the validity of action taken.

               (3)

               If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the planning and zoning commission recommends
               amendment of this chapter to the city council, said recommendation shall be by resolution
               of the planning and zoning commission carried by the affirmative votes of not less
               than a majority of the members present and voting. A copy of any recommended amendment
               shall be submitted to the city council and shall be accompanied by a report of findings,
               summary of hearing and any other pertinent data.

               (4)

               If, after public hearing, the planning and zoning commission recommends denial of
               an application, the applicant may appeal said determination to the city council by
               filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten days after the determination
               of the planning and zoning commission.

               (5)

               The planning and zoning commission may recommend denial of an application with or
               without prejudice against the applicant to refile the application. If the commission
               recommends denial of the application and fails to clearly state the same is being
               denied without prejudice, then it shall be deemed that said application is being recommended
               for denial without prejudice against refiling. If the planning and zoning commission
               recommends denial with prejudice, if it is later determined by the commission that
               there has been a sufficient change in circumstances regarding the property or in the
               zoning application itself, it may waive the waiting period. Newly annexed land which
               has been given agricultural zoning is exempt from the one-year waiting period.

               (c)

               Action by the city council.

               (1)

               If the planning and zoning commission has recommended approval of an application or
               if the planning and zoning commission has recommended denial of an application and
               a notice of appeal has been filed pursuant to subsection (b), the city council shall
               set said application for public hearing and shall give notice of the time and place
               of the hearing by publication one time in the official newspaper at least 16 days
               prior to such hearing.

               (2)

               If the planning and zoning commission has recommended to the city council that a proposed
               amendment be disapproved, the city council may refuse to adopt the amendment by a
               simple majority vote of the councilmembers present and voting. However, in order to
               adopt the amendment which has been recommended for disapproval by the planning and
               zoning commission, the amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable
               vote of three-fourths of all members of the city council.

               (3)

               When the planning and zoning commission has recommended to the city council that a
               proposed amendment be approved, the city council may either approve or disapprove
               the petition or application for amendment by a simple majority vote of the city councilmen
               present and voting. In the event of a tie vote of the city councilmen present and
               voting, the mayor may cast the deciding vote.

               (4)

               In the case of a protest against an amendment to the ordinance signed by the owners
               of 20 percent or more either of the area of the lots or land included in such proposed
               change, or of the area of the lots or land immediately adjoining the area included
               in the proposed change and extending 200 feet from that area, such amendment shall
               not become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all members
               of the city council.

               (5)

               In making its determination, the city council shall consider the following factors:

               a.

               Whether the use permitted by the proposed change will be appropriate in the immediate
               area concerned and its relationship to the general area and the city as a whole.

               b.

               Whether the proposed change is in accord with any existing or proposed plans for providing
               public schools, streets, water supply, sanitary sewers, and other utilities to the
               area.

               c.

               The amount of vacant land currently classified for similar development in the vicinity
               and elsewhere in the city, and any special circumstances which may make a substantial
               part of such vacant land unsuitable for development.

               d.

               The recent rate at which land is being developed in the same zoning classification
               as the request, particularly in the vicinity of the proposed change.

               e.

               The manner in which other areas designated for similar development will be, or are
               likely to be, affected if the proposed amendment is approved, and whether such designation
               for other areas should also be modified.

               f.

               Any other factors which will substantially affect the public health, safety, morals
               or general welfare.

               (6)

               In considering a motion to deny a zoning application, or upon voting to deny a zoning
               application, the city council shall further consider whether said application shall
               be denied with or without prejudice against refiling. If the city council shall deny
               the application and fail to clearly state the same is being denied without prejudice,
               then it shall be deemed that said application is being denied with prejudice against
               refiling. If an application is denied with prejudice, no application may be filed
               for all or a part of the subject tract of land for a period of one year from the date
               of denial by the city council unless the new application is substantially different,
               as determined by the city council. If it is determined by the city council that there
               has been a sufficient change in circumstances regarding the property or in the zoning
               application itself, it may waive the waiting period. Newly annexed land which has
               been given agricultural zoning is exempt from the one-year waiting period.

               (d)

               Changes in zoning regulations. Amendments to this zoning chapter not involving a particular property but involving
               a change in the zoning regulations generally do not require notice to individual property
               owners. In such cases, notice of the required public hearing before the city council
               shall be given by publication in the official newspaper of the city, stating the time
               and location of the public hearing, at least 16 days prior to the date of the hearing.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-97.,"Fees, charges, and expenses.","(a)

               Establishment of schedule of fees. The city council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses and a
               collection procedure for building permits, certificates of zoning compliance, applications,
               appeals, and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall
               be posted in the office of the city secretary and may be altered or amended only by
               the city council.

               (b)

               Fee payment required. Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action
               shall be taken on any application or appeal.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-98.,"Violations, penalties, and enforcement.","(a)

               Fines. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
               to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter,
               shall be fined not more than $2,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation
               exists shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty should not be construed as
               exclusive, and the city hereby provides that any other remedy available to it, in
               law or in equity, is not intended to be, and is not, foreclosed by the provision of
               such penalty.

               (b)

               Enforcement. The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the city manager or his duly
               authorized representatives. The city manager's authorized representatives shall have
               the right to enter upon any premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of making
               inspection of buildings or premises necessary to carry out the enforcement of this
               chapter.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Sec. 42-99.,Injunction.,"The city shall have and retain the right for injunctive relief against any person,
               firm, or corporation who is in the process of or about to violate any section, paragraph,
               or part of this chapter; such right for injunctive relief shall exist independent
               of the other penalty provisions of this chapter and not in lieu thereof. The right
               of injunctive relief is essential to the city in order that it may maintain an orderly
               and properly planned control over all land uses, thus protecting the health, morals,
               safety, and wellbeing of the citizens and halting any attempt by any person, firm,
               or corporation to inflict temporary or permanent injury on the general public by a
               failure to comply with the terms of this chapter.

               (
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, 4-20-2015
                  
               )"
Secs. 42-100—42-175.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 42-264.,Special construction requirements.,"(a)

               Developments of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other material
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (b)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided; however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (c)

               [Applicability of regulations.] These construction regulations shall apply to all the following:

               (1)

               Newly constructed houses.

               (2)

               House moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (d)

               [Attic space.] All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (e)

               [Living space.] All residential structures must have at least 1,200 square feet of living space.

               (Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2D(9.6), 1-19-2009; Ord. No. 2011-002, § 2, 2-21-2011)"
Secs. 42-265—42-291.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 5.,TF—TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (DUPLEX) DISTRICT,NULL
Secs. 42-292—42-296.,Reserved.,"Editor's note— 
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed §§ 42-292—42-296. Former §§ 42-292—42-296 pertained to ""General purpose
               and description""; ""Permitted uses""; ""Permitted specific uses""; ""Height and area regulations"";
               ""Parking regulations"", respectively, and were derived from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 11.1—11.5,
               adopted February 17, 2004."
Sec. 42-297.,Special construction requirements.,"(a)

               Developments of ten or more lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry and/or glass. It is provided, however, that up to, but not
               exceeding, 20 percent of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other
               materials for decorative, architectural or other design purposes. Such other materials
               shall be impervious material that is required for outside walls by the residential
               building code mandated by the state and the ordinances of the city.

               (b)

               Developments of one to nine lots. All outside walls of the ground floor of every residential structure shall be constructed
               of 100 percent masonry, masonry-type products and/or glass, or may be of a log cabin-type
               material and design. It is provided, however, that up to, but not exceeding, 20 percent
               of the outside walls may be covered or constructed of other materials for decorative,
               architectural or other design purposes. Such other material shall be impervious material
               that is required for outside walls by the residential building code mandated by the
               state and the ordinances of the city.

               (c)

               [Applicability of regulations.] These construction regulations shall apply to all the following:

               (1)

               Newly constructed houses.

               (2)

               House moved into or within the city from a previous location.

               (d)

               [Attic space.] All residential structures must have at least six feet of attic space from the attic
               floor to the highest point of the attic framing.

               (e)

               [Living space.] All residential structures must have at least 1,000 square feet of living space per
               unit.

               (Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2F(11.6), 1-19-2009; Ord. No. 2011-002, § 3, 2-21-2011)"
Secs. 42-298—42-327.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 6.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (6) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 6, §§ 42-328—42-333, in its entirety.
               Former div. 6 pertained to ""MH-1—Manufactured Home Park District"" and was derived
               from Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 12.1—12.6, adopted February 17, 2004 and Ord. No. 2009-002,
               § 2G(12.5), adopted January 19, 2009."
Secs. 42-328—42-354.,Reserved.,NULL
Sec. 42-537.,Special construction requirements.,"(a)

               All single-story buildings hereafter constructed or placed in this district shall
               have at least 75 percent of those exterior wall surfaces fronting a public street
               constructed of masonry and/or glass pane.

               (b)

               All buildings having more than a single story hereafter constructed or placed in the
               district shall have at least 50 percent of those exterior wall surfaces fronting a
               public street constructed of masonry and/or glass pane.

               (c)

               All additions hereafter constructed to buildings in this district shall have at least
               50 percent of those exterior wall surfaces fronting a public street constructed of
               masonry and/or glass pane.

               (Ord. No. 2011-002, § 9, 2-21-2011)"
Secs. 42-538—42-565.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 14.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (12) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 14, §§ 42-566—42-571, in its entirety.
               Former div. 14 pertained to ""I—Institutional District"" and was derived from Ord. No.
               2004-028, §§ 19.1—19.6, adopted February 17, 2004 and Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2L(19.6),
               adopted January 19, 2009."
Secs. 42-566—42-590.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 15.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (13) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 15, §§ 42-591—42-596, in its entirety.
               Former div. 15 pertained to ""PD—Planned Development District"" and was derived from
               Ord. No. 2004-028, §§ 20.1—20.6, adopted February 17, 2004."
Secs. 42-591—42-625.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 16.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (14) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 16, §§ 42-626—42-628, in its entirety.
               Former div. 16 pertained to ""FP—Floodplain District"" and was derived from Ord. No.
               2004-028, §§ 21.1—21.3, adopted February 17, 2004."
Secs. 42-626—42-659.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 17.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (15) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 17, §§ 42-660—42-662, in its entirety.
               Former div. 17 pertained to ""Schedule of Uses/Tables"" and was derived from Ord. No.
               2004-028, §§ 22, Apps. 1, 2, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2005-002, adopted
               October 18, 2004; Ord. No. 2009-002, § 2M, adopted January 19, 2009; Ord. No. 2010-001,
               § 2(A), adopted February 15, 2010; Ord. No. 2010-003, § 2(A), adopted February 15,
               2010; Ord. No. 2010-006, § 1(Exh. A), adopted April 19, 2010; Ord. No. 2919-025, §
               2A, adopted October 18, 2010; Ord. No. 2011-003, § 2, adopted February 21, 2011; Ord.
               No. 2011-024, § 1, adopted July 18, 2011; Ord. No. 2011-028, § 1, adopted August 15,
               2011; Ord. No. 2011-032A, § 1A, adopted September 19, 2011 and Ord. No. 2011-033,
               §§ 1A—C, adopted September 19, 2011."
Secs. 42-660—42-672.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 18.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (16) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 18, § 42-673, in its entirety. Former
               div. 18 pertained to ""Descriptions/Definitions of Uses"" and was derived from Ord.
               No. 2003-012, adopted February 17, 2003; Ord. No. 2004-028, § 23, adopted February
               17, 2004; Ord. No. 2005-001, adopted October 18, 2005; Ord. No. 2006-007, adopted
               November 21, 2005; Ord. No. 2006-008, adopted November 21, 2005; Ord. No. 2009-002,
               § 2N(23.1.15—23.1.16), adopted January 19, 2009; Ord. No. 2010-003, § 2(B), adopted
               February 15, 2010; Ord. No. 2010-025, §§ 2B, 2C, adopted October 18, 2010; Ord. No.
               2011-024, § 2, adopted July 18, 2011 and Ord. No. 2011-034, § 2, adopted September
               19, 2011."
Secs. 42-673—42-683.,Reserved.,NULL
DIVISION 19.,RESERVED,"Footnotes:  --- (17) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , repealed art. VIII (formerly art. III), div. 19, §§ 42-684—42-695, in its entirety.
               Former div. 19 pertained to ""Special Uses"" and was derived from Ord. No. 2004-028,
               §§ 24.1—24.11, adopted February 17, 2004; Ord. No. 2005-002, adopted October 18, 2004;
               Ord. No. 2006-008, adopted November 21, 2005; Ord. No. 2011-002, § 19, adopted February
               21, 2011; Ord. No. 2011-021, § 1, adopted July 18, 2011; Ord. No. 2011-019, § 2, adopted
               June 20, 2011 and Ord. No. 2013-031, § 1, adopted July 15, 2013."
Secs. 42-684—42-714.,Reserved.,NULL
Secs. 42-715—42-736.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE IX.,MANUFACTURED HOMES,"Footnotes:  --- (19) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , renumbered art. IV as art. IX. See editor's note at beginning of this chapter.

            State Law reference— 
               Texas Manufactured Housing Standards Act, V.T.C.A., Occupations Code ch. 1201."
Sec. 42-738.,Manufactured homes to be located in manufactured home parks or subdivisions; exception.,"It shall be unlawful for any person to connect utilities or to occupy a manufactured
               home within the city, except where it is located in a duly licensed manufactured home
               park or manufactured home subdivision under the terms of this article, and has been
               approved in the manner prescribed herein, except where the manufactured home meets
               the definition of a permanent manufactured home under this article and the city zoning
               regulations, and a valid permit has been granted and a certificate of occupancy has
               been issued by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 152.02)"
Sec. 42-739.,Utility service contingent on obtaining certificate of occupancy.,"The city will provide for electric, water, and sewer service to the site of manufactured
               home parks or permanent manufactured homes only after a permit has been granted and
               a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city. Water and sewer service will
               be provided in accordance with the policy of this city concerning water supply to
               permanent structures and electric service will be provided upon receipt of deposit
               by the city.

               (Code 2008, § 152.03)"
Sec. 42-737.,Definitions.,"For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the respective meanings
               ascribed to them:

               License means a written license issued by the city allowing a person to operate and maintain
               a manufactured home park under the provisions of this article.

               Manufactured home lot means a parcel of land for the placement of a single manufactured home and the exclusive
               use of its occupants.

               Manufactured home stand means that part of an individual lot which has been reserved for the placement of
               one manufactured home unit.

               Park management means the person who owns or has charge, care, or control of the manufactured home
               park.

               Park street means a private way which affords principal means of access to individual manufactured
               home lots or auxiliary buildings.

               Permanent manufactured home means a manufactured home parked or placed on a separate vacant platted city lot
               or a plot containing at least 5,000 square feet of land and outside a manufactured
               home park in which the setback requirements for said manufactured home as specified
               for manufactured homes located in residential zoning districts as set out in this
               article. The manufactured home shall have the wheels removed and be underpinned, underskirted,
               and anchored to the ground in a permanent fashion, using solid concrete blocks and
               bases and having separate water, sewer, gas, and electrical connections approved by
               the city.

               Permit means a written permit or certification issued by the city permitting the construction,
               alteration, and extension of a manufactured home park or placement of a permanent
               manufactured home under the provisions of this article and regulations issued hereunder.

               Service building means a structure housing toilet, lavatory, and such other facilities as may be required
               by this article.

               Sewer connection means the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and appurtenances from the
               drain outlet of the manufactured home to the inlet of the corresponding sewer riser
               pipe of the sewerage system serving the manufactured home park.

               Sewer riser pipe means the portion of the sewer system serving a manufactured home park which extends
               vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a designated point on each manufactured
               home lot.

               Trailer or travel trailer means a vehicle used for temporary living quarters and designed to be used for camping
               and vacations and to be stored in the vicinity of a permanent residence, and no living
               quarters maintained therein.

               Water connection means the connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and appurtenances from the
               water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the distribution system within the manufactured
               home.

               Water riser pipe means that portion of the water supply system serving the manufactured home park
               which extends vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at a designated point
               at each manufactured home lot.

               (Code 2008, § 152.01)"
Sec. 42-740.,Permits.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to place, construct, alter, or extend any manufactured
               home park within the city unless the plan for the park is approved by the city's planning
               and zoning commission and unless such person holds a valid permit issued in that person's
               name for the specific construction, alteration, and/or extension proposed and has
               paid other charges for normal utility connections.

               (b)

               All applications for permits shall contain the following:

               (1)

               A formal written request by applicant containing the name and address of the applicant.

               (2)

               Location and legal description of the manufactured home park.

               (3)

               Plans and specifications of the water supply system, refuse and sewer disposal facilities,
               and lighting and electrical systems.

               (4)

               Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be constructed within
               the manufactured home park.

               (5)

               Plans and specifications of roadways, walkways, driveways and parking areas.

               (c)

               All applications shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee as currently established
               or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time.

               (d)

               When, upon review of the application, the city's building official is satisfied that
               the proposed plan meets the requirements of this article, a permit shall be issued.

               (e)

               Any person whose application for a permit under this article has been denied may request
               and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the city council under the procedure
               provided by section 42-744.

               (Code 2008, § 152.04)"
Sec. 42-741.,Certificate of occupancy for permanent manufactured home.,"No permanent manufactured home shall be occupied nor shall any city utility be connected
               to any permanent manufactured home unless or until a certificate of occupancy for
               the permanent manufactured home has been issued. The city's building officials shall,
               after an application therefor has been filed by the owner or his agent, issue a certificate
               of occupancy if, after inspection of the premises, it is found that same complies
               with the provisions of this chapter and any other applicable codes and ordinances
               relative to location, construction, arrangement, safety, and sanitary facilities of
               manufactured homes.

               (Code 2008, § 152.05)"
Sec. 42-742.,Licenses.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any manufactured home park within the
               city, unless he holds a valid license issued annually by the city in the name of such
               person for the specific manufactured home park. All applications for licenses shall
               be made to the city's building official, who shall issue a license upon compliance
               by the applicant with the provisions of this article.

               (b)

               Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the city within 24
               hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of interest
               in or control of any manufactured home park. Such notice shall include the name and
               address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such manufactured
               home park. Upon application in writing for transfer of the license and deposit of
               a fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
               from time to time, the license shall be transferred if the manufactured home park
               is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter.

               (c)

               Applications for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, accompanied
               by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the application and by the deposit
               of a fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city
               council from time to time, and shall contain:

               (1)

               The name and address of the applicant;

               (2)

               The location and legal description of the manufactured home park; and

               (3)

               A site plan of the manufactured home park showing all manufactured home lots, structures,
               roads, walkways, and other service facilities.

               (d)

               Applications for renewal of license shall be made in writing by the holders of the
               license, shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee as currently established or
               as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council from time to time and shall
               contain any change in the information submitted since the original license was issued
               or the latest renewal granted.

               (e)

               Any person whose application for a license under this chapter has been denied may
               request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the city council under
               the procedure provided by section 42-744.

               (f)

               Whenever, upon inspection of any manufactured home park, the city's building official
               finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of
               this article, the building inspector shall give notice in writing in accordance with section 42-744(a) to the person to whom the license was issued that unless such conditions or practices
               are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice by said building
               official, the license shall be suspended. At the end of such period, the building
               official shall re-inspect such manufactured home park and, if such conditions or practices
               have not been corrected, such officials shall suspend the license and give notice
               in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license is issued. Upon receipt
               of notice of such suspension, such person shall cease operation of such manufactured
               home park except as provided in section 42-744(b).

               (Code 2008, § 152.06)"
Sec. 42-743.,Inspection of manufactured home parks.,"(a)

               The city's director of community development and such other designated city officials
               are authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine
               satisfactory compliance with this article.

               (b)

               Such officials shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private
               or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating
               to the enforcement of this article.

               (c)

               Such officials shall have the power to inspect the register containing a record of
               all residents of the manufactured home park.

               (d)

               It shall be the duty of the park management to give such officials free access to
               all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.

               (e)

               It shall be the duty of every occupant of a manufactured home park to give the owner
               thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such manufactured home park
               at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary
               to effect compliance with this article.

               (Code 2008, § 152.07)"
Sec. 42-744.,"Notice, hearings, and orders.","(a)

               Whenever the city officials determine that there are reasonable grounds to believe
               there has been a violation of any provision of this article, the city's director of
               community development, or designated building official, shall give notice of such
               alleged violation to the person to whom the permit and/or license was issued, as hereinafter
               provided. Such notice shall:

               (1)

               Be in writing;

               (2)

               Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;

               (3)

               Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;

               (4)

               Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require. Such notice or order
               shall be deemed to have been proper if served upon such owner or agent when a copy
               thereof has been sent by certified mail to his last-known address, or when he has
               been served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of this
               state;

               (5)

               Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with
               the provisions of this article.

               (b)

               Any person affected by any notice issued in connection with the enforcement of any
               provision of this article may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
               before the city council, provided that such person shall file in the office of the
               city secretary a written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief
               statement of the grounds therefor within ten days after the day the notice was served.
               The filing of the request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and
               of the suspension except in the case of any order issued under subsection (e) of this
               section. Upon receipt of such petition, the city secretary shall set a time and place
               for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing,
               the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice
               should be modified or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten
               days after the day on which the petition was filed, provided that upon application
               of the petitioner the city secretary may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable
               time beyond such ten-day period when it is determined that the petitioner has submitted
               good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.

               (c)

               After such hearing, the city secretary shall make findings regarding compliance with
               the provisions of this article and shall issue a written order sustaining, modifying,
               or withdrawing the notice, which shall be served as provided in subsection (a) of
               this section. Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice,
               the license of the manufactured home park affected by the order shall be revoked.

               (d)

               The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision of the city
               council, and together with a copy of every notice and order related thereto, shall
               be entered as a matter of public record in the office of the city secretary. The transcript
               of the proceedings need not be transcribed unless judicial review of the decision
               is sought as provided by this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
               city council may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as
               provided by the laws of this state.

               (e)

               Whenever the director of community development or other designated building inspector
               finds that any emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public
               health, he may without notice or hearing issue an order reciting the existence of
               such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary
               to meet the emergency including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding
               any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
               person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon
               petition to the city secretary, shall be afforded a hearing before the city council
               as soon as possible. The provisions of subsections (c) and (d) of this section shall
               be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.

               (Code 2008, § 152.08)"
Sec. 42-745.,Miscellaneous manufactured home regulations.,"(a)

               It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer or manufactured home on any
               street, alley, or highway, or other public place or on any tract of land owned by
               any person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city, except as provided in this article
               and this chapter.

               (b)

               Temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street, alley, or highway for not
               more than two hours subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations, or
               limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations or ordinances for that
               street, alley, or highway.

               (c)

               Each manufactured home that meets the definition of a permanent manufactured home
               shall be underpinned and underskirted and shall be anchored according to the following:

               (1)

               Length up to 30 feet: two per side, including one on each corner;

               (2)

               Length 30 to 50 feet: three per side, including one on each corner;

               (3)

               Length 50 to 70 feet: four per side, including one on each corner;

               (4)

               Length over 70 feet: five per side, including one on each corner.

               (d)

               It shall be unlawful to occupy a manufactured home as any type occupancy other than
               as a private dwelling, with the following exceptions: Not more than one manufactured
               home may be used for demonstration and office at a manufactured home sales lot or
               manufactured home park.

               (Code 2008, § 152.09)"
Sec. 42-746.,Nonconforming manufactured home parks constitute public nuisances.,"Any manufactured home park or permanent manufactured home in violation of the terms
               and provisions of this article is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the
               appropriate officers of the city are hereby authorized to institute any action necessary
               to restrain or abate such violation. Owners of manufactured home parks shall have
               filed with the city a survey showing all the property they own intended for use as
               a manufactured home park, and the improvements existing on the property, and a schedule
               of changes to be made during a period of time not more than five years to bring the
               manufactured home park to a conforming status.

               (Code 2008, § 152.10)"
Sec. 42-747.,Revision of plan after approval.,"No changes, erasures, modifications, or revisions shall be made in any plan of a manufactured
               home park after approval has been given by the planning and zoning commission, unless
               said change, modification, or revision is first submitted to and approved by said
               commission.

               (Code 2008, § 152.11)"
Sec. 42-748.,Temporary exemptions.,"(a)

               If it is found that compliance with provisions of this article would result in undue
               hardship, an exemption may be granted by the planning and zoning commission if such
               exemption does not impair the intent and purpose of this article and except where
               exemptions or variances affect the city's zoning regulations and come under the purview
               of the board of adjustments. Deviations from design, construction, and installation
               provisions shall be brought into compliance with this article within a reasonable
               period of time based on economic feasibility of improvement, nature, significance,
               and extent of deviation, depreciation of material, improvement, layout in use, and
               other similar factors, within a period not exceeding five years.

               (b)

               Such period shall begin after city officials have given notice of a certain and specific
               deviation from this article to the person to whom the permit or certification was
               issued.

               (c)

               Gradual improvements to a higher degree of conformity shall be permitted, provided
               that there shall be complete conformity at the end of a period prescribed by the exemptions
               granted.

               (Code 2008, § 152.12)"
Sec. 42-749.,"Environmental, open space, and access requirements.","(a)

               General requirements. Condition of soil, groundwater level, drainage, and topography shall not create hazards
               to the property or the health or safety of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed
               to objectionable smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influence, and no portion subject
               to unpredictable and/or sudden flooding, subsidence, or erosion shall be used for
               any purpose which would expose persons or property to hazards.

               (b)

               Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every manufactured home park shall be paved,
               covered with stone screenings or other solid materials, or protected with a vegetative
               growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable
               dust.

               (c)

               Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every manufactured home park shall be graded and
               equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.

               (d)

               Park areas for nonresident uses.

               (1)

               No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such uses that
               are required for the direct servicing and well-being of park residents and for the
               management and maintenance of the park.

               (2)

               Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting the sale of a manufactured
               home located on a manufactured home stand and connected to the pertinent utilities.

               (e)

               Required separation between manufactured homes. Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other by 15 feet and from other buildings
               and structures by at least ten feet; provided that manufactured homes placed end-to-end
               may have a clearance of ten feet where opposing rear walls are staggered. In determining
               these distances, manufactured home shall include any structure that is attached to
               the manufactured home.

               (f)

               Required recreation areas.

               (1)

               In all parks accommodating or designed to accommodate 15 or more manufactured homes,
               there shall be one or more recreation areas which shall be easily accessible to all
               park residents.

               (2)

               The size of such recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of 100 square feet
               for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall contain less than 2,500 square feet.

               (3)

               Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and should be
               centrally located, where topography permits.

               (g)

               Required setbacks, buffer strips, and screenings.

               (1)

               All manufactured homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any park property boundary
               line abutting upon a public street or highway and at least five feet from other park
               property boundary lines.

               (2)

               There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the manufactured home stand
               and abutting park street.

               (3)

               All manufactured home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial land uses
               shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth along the property
               boundary line separating the park and such adjacent nonresidential use.

               (h)

               Park street system and car parking.

               (1)

               General requirements. All manufactured home parks shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular
               access from abutting public streets or roads to each manufactured home lot. Such access
               shall be provided by streets, driveways, or other means.

               (2)

               Park entrance. Entrances to manufactured home parks shall be designed to minimize congestion and
               hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. No parking shall be
               permitted on the park entrance street for a distance of 100 feet from its point of
               beginning, unless the park entrance is at least 34 feet wide.

               (3)

               Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to accommodate anticipated traffic,
               and in any case shall meet the following minimum requirements:

               a.

               All streets, except minor streets (from back of curb to back of curb, if provided:
               25 feet width.

               b.

               Minor streets (acceptable only if less than 500 feet long and serving less than 15
               manufactured homes or of any length if manufactured home lots abut on one side only):
               20 feet width.

               c.

               Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 500 feet; dead-end streets shall be
               provided, at the closed end, with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter
               of at least 80 feet.

               d.

               The minimum street width requirement above shall be increased by eight feet if on-street
               parking is the only type parking provided in a manufactured home park.

               e.

               Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes shall be provided for the use
               of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall:

               1.

               Be furnished at a rate of at least 1¼ car spaces for each manufactured home lot.

               2.

               Be located within a distance of 200 feet from the manufactured home to be served,
               unless other vehicular access is provided.

               f.

               All parks shall be furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries
               placed at such mounting heights as will provide the following average maintained levels
               of illumination for the safe movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night:

               1.

               All parts of the park street system: 0.6 footcandle with a minimum of 0.1 footcandle.

               2.

               Potentially hazardous locations, such as major street intersections and steps or stepped
               ramps: individually illuminated, with a minimum of 0.3 footcandle.

               g.

               Street construction and design standards:

               1.

               Pavements. All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard, and dense surface which shall
               be durable and well drained under normal use and weather conditions. A suggested minimum
               construction detail shall be furnished by the director of public works. Street surfaces
               shall be maintained free of holes and other hazards.

               2.

               Grades. Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to insure adequate surface drainage, but
               shall not be more than eight percent. Short runs with a maximum grade of 12 percent
               may be permitted, provided traffic safety is assured by appropriate paving, adequate
               leveling areas, and avoidance of lateral curves.

               3.

               Intersections. Within 100 feet of an intersection, streets shall be at approximately right angles.
               A distance of at least 150 feet shall be maintained between centerlines of offset
               intersecting streets. Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be
               avoided.

               (i)

               Walks.

               (1)

               General requirements. All parks shall be provided with safe, convenient, all season pedestrian access of
               adequate width for intended use, durable and convenient to maintain, between individual
               manufactured homes, the park streets and all community facilities provided for park
               residents. Sudden changes in alignment and gradient shall be avoided.

               (2)

               Common walk system. A common walk system shall be provided and maintained between locations where pedestrian
               traffic is concentrated. Such common walks shall have a minimum width of four feet.

               (3)

               Individual walks. All manufactured home stands shall be connected to common walks, to paved streets,
               or to paved driveways or parking spaces connecting to a paved street. Such individual
               walks shall have a minimum width of two feet.

               (j)

               Manufactured home stands. The area of the manufactured home stand shall be improved to provide adequate support
               for the placement and tie-down of the manufactured home, thereby securing the superstructure
               against uplift, sliding, rotation, and overturning. The manufactured home stand shall
               not heave, shift, or settle unevenly under the weight of the manufactured home due
               to inadequate drainage or other forces acting on the structure.

               (Code 2008, § 152.13)"
Sec. 42-750.,Water supply.,"(a)

               General requirements. An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be provided in each
               manufactured home park and shall conform to the city's water system regulations. Where
               a public supply of water of satisfactory quantity, quality, and pressure is available
               at the site or at the boundary of the site, connection shall be made thereto and its
               supply used exclusively.

               (b)

               Source of supply. The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of 150 gallons per day per
               manufactured home.

               (c)

               Water storage facilities. All water storage reservoirs shall be covered, watertight, and constructed of impervious
               material. Overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be effectively screened. Manholes
               shall be constructed with overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of contaminated
               material. Reservoir overflow pipes shall discharge through an acceptable air gap.

               (d)

               Water distribution system.

               (1)

               The water supply system of the manufactured home park shall be connected by pipes
               to all manufactured homes, buildings, and other facilities requiring water.

               (2)

               All water piping, fixtures, and other equipment shall be constructed and maintained
               in accordance with state and city regulations and shall be of a type and in locations
               approved by the public works director.

               (3)

               The water piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or questionable water
               supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of backflow or backsiphonage.

               (4)

               The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a pressure of not less
               than 20 pounds per square inch, under normal operating conditions at service buildings
               and other locations requiring potable water supply.

               (e)

               Individual water riser pipes and connections.

               (1)

               Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined area of the manufactured
               home stand at a point where the water connection will approximate a vertical position.

               (2)

               Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground elevation. The pipe
               diameter shall be at least three-fourths of an inch. The water outlet shall be capped
               when a manufactured home does not occupy the lot.

               (3)

               Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service lines, valves, and
               riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing actions of ground during
               freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted from the location of the riser
               pipe.

               (4)

               A shutoff valve shall be provided near the water riser pipe on each manufactured home
               lot.

               (5)

               Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any water service.

               (Code 2008, § 152.14)"
Sec. 42-751.,Sewage disposal.,"(a)

               General requirements. An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be provided in all manufactured home parks
               for conveying and disposing of all sewage and conforming to the city's sewage disposal
               regulations. Such systems shall be designed and constructed and maintained in accordance
               with state and city regulations.

               (b)

               Sewer lines. All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of breakage
               from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from the park water supply
               system by a safe distance as approved by the city's director of public works. Sewers
               shall be at a grade which will insure a velocity of two feet per second when flowing
               full. All sewer lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the director of
               public works, shall be adequately vented, and shall have watertight joints.

               (c)

               Individual sewer connections.

               (1)

               Each manufactured home stand shall be provided with at least one four-inch diameter
               sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each stand that the
               sewer connection to the manufactured home drain outlet will approximate a vertical
               position.

               (2)

               The sewer connection (see definition) shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least
               three inches and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch
               per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipeline only without any branch
               fitting. All joints shall be watertight.

               (3)

               All materials used for sewer connections shall be semi-rigid, corrosive resistant,
               nonabsorbent, and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.

               (4)

               Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a manufactured home
               does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the riser. The
               rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least two inches above ground elevation.

               (d)

               Sewage treatment and/or discharge. Where the sewer lines of the manufactured home park are not connected to a public
               sewer, all proposed sewage disposal facilities shall be approved by the director of
               public works prior to construction. Effluents from sewer treatment facilities shall
               not be discharged into any waters of the city, county, or state except with prior
               approval of the city and the appropriate state agency.

               (Code 2008, § 152.15)"
Sec. 42-780.,Purpose.,"To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to lessen congestion in the streets;
               to facilitate the adequate provisions of transportation; to conserve the value of
               buildings; and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, minimum off-street parking
               and loading shall be provided as set forth in the following schedules and provisions.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 26.1, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-752.,Electrical distribution systems.,"(a)

               General requirements. Every park and every manufactured home shall contain an electrical wiring system
               consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances which shall be installed
               and maintained in accordance with the city electrical code.

               (b)

               Power distribution lines.

               (1)

               Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at least 18 feet above
               the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of three feet between overhead
               wiring and any manufactured home, service building or other structure.

               (2)

               All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18 inches below the
               ground surface and shall be insulated and specially designed for the purpose. Such
               conductors shall be located not less than one-foot radial distance from water, sewer,
               gas, or communications lines, and in conformance with the city electrical code.

               (c)

               Individual electrical connections.

               (1)

               Each manufactured home lot shall be provided with an approved disconnecting device
               and over-current protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet shall be 120/240
               volts AC, 50 amperes. Wherever wires are exposed at any connection, then a locking
               device shall be required to cover the connection.

               (2)

               Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in a waterproof outlet
               box, and shall be located not more than 25 feet from the over-current protective device
               in the manufactured home. A three-pole, four-wire grounding type shall be used.

               (3)

               Receptacles, if provided, shall be in accordance with American Standard Outlet Receptacle
               C-73.1.

               (4)

               Connectors, if not substituted by more than one receptacle, shall be provided where
               the calculated load of the manufactured home is more than 50 amperes.

               (5)

               The manufactured home shall be connected to the outlet box by an approved type of
               flexible supply cord with a male attachment plus or with pressure connectors.

               (d)

               Required grounding. All exposed non-current-carrying metal parts of manufactured homes and all other
               equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with branch
               circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The neutral
               conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for manufactured homes or other
               equipment.

               (Code 2008, § 152.16)"
Sec. 42-753.,Service building and other community service facilities.,"(a)

               The requirements of this section shall apply to service buildings, recreation buildings
               and other community service facilities, such as:

               (1)

               Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;

               (2)

               Sanitary facilities;

               (3)

               Laundry facilities;

               (4)

               Indoor recreation areas;

               (5)

               Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the exclusive use of park
               occupants.

               (b)

               Structural requirements for buildings:

               (1)

               All portions of the structure shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary
               use or by decay, corrosion, termites, and other destructive elements. Exterior portions
               shall be of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance
               or penetration of moisture and weather.

               (2)

               All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall have:

               a.

               Sound-resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and female sanitary facilities.
               Walls and partitions around showers, bathtubs, lavatories, and other plumbing fixtures
               shall be constructed of dense, nonabsorbent, waterproof material, or covered with
               moisture-resistant material;

               b.

               At least one window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum aggregate
               gross area of windows for each required room shall be not less than ten percent of
               the floor area served by them; and

               c.

               At least one window which can be easily opened or a mechanical device which will adequately
               ventilate the room.

               (3)

               Toilets shall be located in separate compartments. Shower stalls shall be of the individual
               type. The rooms shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the
               exterior doors are open.

               (4)

               Illumination levels shall be maintained as follows:

               a.

               General seeing tasks: five footcandles;

               b.

               Laundry room work area: 40 footcandles;

               c.

               Toilet room, in front of mirrors: 40 footcandles.

               (5)

               Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink, bathtub, shower and
               laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every water closet and urinal.

               (6)

               All structures shall comply with the building codes of the city.

               (c)

               Barbeque pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking shelters, barbecue pits,
               fireplaces, and woodburning stoves shall be so located, constructed, maintained, and
               used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on which
               used and on neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities
               provided. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material
               burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors. The use of open fires and burning
               of materials shall conform strictly to the city's zoning, health, sanitation, and
               nuisance regulations.

               (Code 2008, § 152.17)"
Sec. 42-754.,Refuse handling.,"(a)

               The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the manufactured home park shall
               be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
               areas, accident, or fire hazards or air pollution.

               (b)

               All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof containers, which
               shall be located not more than 150 feet from any manufactured home lot. Containers
               shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly store all refuse.

               (c)

               Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such container
               stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize
               spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around them.

               (d)

               All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice weekly. All refuse
               shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.

               (e)

               All manufactured home parks must conform to the city's refuse and garbage collection
               system and regulations.

               (Code 2008, § 152.18)"
Sec. 42-755.,Insect and rodent control.,"(a)

               Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insects and rodent
               harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to control insects
               and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the city's health and sanitation
               regulations.

               (b)

               Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may provide rodent
               harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests.

               (c)

               Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; lumber, pipe,
               and other building material shall be stored at least one foot above the ground.

               (d)

               Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior openings
               in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire mesh or other
               suitable materials.

               (e)

               The growth of bushes, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to prevent harborage of
               ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent
               the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, and other noxious weeds
               considered detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth
               of any description.

               (Code 2008, § 152.19)"
Sec. 42-756.,Fuel supply and storage.,"(a)

               Natural gas system.

               (1)

               Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable
               codes and regulations governing such systems and conform to state and city regulations.

               (2)

               Each manufactured home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved manual shut-off
               valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be equipped with an approved
               cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the outlet is not in use.

               (b)

               Liquefied petroleum gas system.

               (1)

               Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
               applicable codes and regulations governing such systems and conform to state and city
               regulations.

               (2)

               Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive pressures and shall
               be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe location.

               (3)

               Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off gas. Such means
               shall be located outside the manufactured home and shall be maintained in effective
               operating condition.

               (4)

               All liquefied petroleum gas piping outside of the manufactured homes shall be well
               supported and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas
               in liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in manufactured
               homes.

               (5)

               Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a manufactured home lot shall be securely
               but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental overturning. Such containers shall
               not be less than 12 or more than 60 U.S. gallons gross capacity.

               (6)

               No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside or beneath any
               storage cabinet, carport, manufactured home, or any other structure, unless such installations
               are approved by the building official.

               (c)

               Fuel oil supply systems.

               (1)

               All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable
               codes and regulations governing such systems and conform to state and city regulations.

               (2)

               All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to manufactured homes shall
               be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.

               (3)

               All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in place and shall
               not be located inside or beneath any manufactured home or less than five feet from
               any manufactured home exit.

               (4)

               Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected against physical
               damage.

               (Code 2008, § 152.20)"
Sec. 42-757.,Fire protection.,"(a)

               Manufactured home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable
               materials and shall comply with the standards found in the International Fire Code.

               (b)

               Portable fire extinguishers rated for classes B and C fires shall be kept in service
               buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily accessible for use by all
               occupants and shall be maintained in good operating condition. There shall be one
               such fire extinguisher for each ten manufactured homes, not being located further
               than 200 feet from any manufactured home stand.

               (c)

               Fire hydrants shall be located within 500 feet of any manufactured home stand, service
               building, or other structure in the park, and shall be subject to inspection by the
               building official.

               (Code 2008, § 152.21)"
Sec. 42-758.,Construction and additions.,"It shall be unlawful for any person operating a manufactured home park or owning or
               occupying a manufactured home to construct, or permit to be constructed in such park
               or in connection with such manufactured home, any additional structure, building,
               or shelter in connection with or attached to a manufactured home, except that suitably
               constructed awnings of canvas or metal may be attached to such manufactured homes,
               as well as portable, prefabricated, temporary rooms (commonly called ""cabanas"") for
               the express purpose of increasing a manufactured home's living area. These additions
               must meet the following requirements:

                  (1)

                  Construction shall be of metal only, fire-resistant, double-walled, mechanical joint
                  panels (no welding joints between panels permitted);

                  (2)

                  Strength of material and structure shall meet minimum standards of the building code;

                  (3)

                  Construction shall be capable of being dismantled when moved;

                  (4)

                  Any structure shall be completely dismantled and removed from the site at the time
                  the manufactured home to which it is accessory is moved;

                  (5)

                  Finish and appearance shall match, as near as possible, the finish of the manufactured
                  home to which it is accessory;

                  (6)

                  The length of the structure shall not exceed the length of the manufactured home to
                  which it is accessory; and

                  (7)

                  Only one such structure per manufactured home shall be permitted.

               (Code 2008, § 152.22)"
Sec. 42-759.,Responsibility of park management and occupants.,"(a)

               Responsibilities of the park management.

               (1)

               The person to whom a license for a manufactured home park is issued shall operate
               the park in compliance with this article and shall provide adequate supervision to
               maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and
               sanitary condition.

               (2)

               The park management shall notify park occupants of applicable provisions of this article
               and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this article.

               (3)

               The park management shall supervise the placement of each manufactured home on its
               manufactured home stand which includes securing its stability and installing all utility
               connections.

               (4)

               The park management shall maintain a register containing the following information:

               a.

               Name and address of each occupant.

               b.

               Make, model, year, and license number of all automobiles and manufactured homes of
               owners and occupants residing in the park.

               c.

               The state issuing such license.

               d.

               The date of arrival and of departure of each manufactured home;

               (5)

               The park manager shall keep the register available at all times for inspection by
               law enforcement officers, public health officials, and other city officials whose
               duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register.

               (6)

               The register records shall not be destroyed for a period of three years following
               the date of registration.

               (7)

               The park management shall notify the city's health authorities immediately of any
               suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.

               (b)

               Responsibilities of park occupants.

               (1)

               Park occupants shall comply with all applicable requirements of this article and shall
               maintain their manufactured home lots and facilities and equipment in good repair
               and in a clean and sanitary condition.

               (2)

               Park occupants shall be responsible for proper placement of their manufactured homes
               on manufactured home stands and proper installation of all utility connections in
               accordance with the instructions of the park management and state and city regulations.

               (3)

               Skirtings, porches, awnings, and other additions shall be installed only if permitted
               and approved by the park management. When installed, they shall be maintained in good
               repair. The space immediately underneath a manufactured home shall be used for storage
               only if permitted by the park management and city codes and regulations. If permitted,
               the following conditions shall be satisfied for storage:

               a.

               The storage area shall be provided with a base of impervious material.

               b.

               Stored items shall be located so as not to interfere with the underneath inspection
               of the manufactured home.

               c.

               The storage area shall be enclosed by skirting.

               (4)

               Park occupants shall store and dispose of all their rubbish and garbage in a clean,
               sanitary, and safe manner. The garbage container shall be rodentproof, insectproof,
               and watertight.

               (Code 2008, § 152.23)"
Secs. 42-760—42-779.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE X.,OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING,"Footnotes:  --- (20) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , renumbered art. V as art. X. See editor's note at beginning of this chapter."
Sec. 42-781.,Special off-street parking provisions in residential districts.,"(a)

               Required off-street parking shall be provided on the same site as the use it serves.

               (b)

               No parking shall be allowed except on a paved concrete or asphalt parking space surface.

               (c)

               In residential districts, a boat, trailer or recreational vehicle may be parked or
               stored on the residential premises of the owner, provided that the boat, trailer or
               recreational vehicle is within the rear yard or side yard not abutting a street, or
               in the driveway in the front yard.

               (d)

               All driveways shall be a minimum width of 12 feet.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 26.2, 3-21-2005; Ord. No. No. 2011-002, § 13, 2-21-2011)"
Sec. 42-782.,Size of space.,Content is too large for cell.
Secs. 42-783—42-803.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE XI.,NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES,"Footnotes:  --- (21) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , renumbered art. VI as art. XI. See editor's note at beginning of this chapter."
Sec. 42-804.,Uses in existence at time of adoption of ordinance.,"A nonconforming status shall exist when a use or structure which does not conform
               to the regulations prescribed in the district in which such use or structure is located
               was in existence and lawfully operating prior to the adoption of the ordinance from
               which this chapter is derived.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.1, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-805.,Expansion of nonconforming use prohibited.,"No nonconforming use or structure may be expanded or increased except to provide off-street
               loading or off-street parking upon approval of the city council.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.2, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-806.,"Repairs, normal maintenance on nonconforming uses permitted.","Repairs and normal maintenance may be made to a nonconforming building provided that
               no structural alterations or extensions shall be made except those required by law
               or ordinance, unless the building is changed to a conforming use.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.3, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-807.,Change of nonconforming to conforming use.,"Any nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use and once such change is made,
               the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.4, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-808.,"Abandonment, discontinuation of nonconforming use.","Whenever a nonconforming use is abandoned, all nonconforming rights shall cease and
               the use of the premises shall thenceforth be in conformity with this article. Abandonment
               shall involve the intent of the user or owner to discontinue a nonconforming operation
               and the actual act of discontinuance. Discontinuance of a business or the vacancy
               of a building or premises occupied by a nonconforming use for a period of six months
               shall be construed as conclusive proof of intent to abandon the nonconforming use.
               Any nonconforming use not involving a permanent type of structure which is moved from
               the premises shall be considered to have been abandoned.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.5, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-809.,Accidental destruction of nonconforming use.,"If a nonconforming structure or a structure occupied by a nonconforming use is destroyed
               by fire, act of God or other cause, it may not be rebuilt except in conformance to
               the provisions of this article, unless permitted by the zoning board of adjustment,
               taking into consideration the property owner's circumstances and the effect on surrounding
               properties, after a public hearing with notice provided in accordance with section 42-82(c) for appeals before the zoning board of adjustment. The zoning board of adjustment
               may provide restrictions on such rebuilding. Such nonconforming use or structure may
               be rebuilt without such permission if such destruction does not exceed 50 percent
               of its reasonable value so long as permits for such rebuilding are obtained within
               six months of such destruction, and the size and function of the nonconforming use
               are not expanded.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.6, 3-21-2005; Ord. No. 2012-026, § 1, 9-17-2012)"
Sec. 42-810.,Replacement of nonconforming HUD Code manufactured home.,"Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this article, a nonconforming HUD Code manufactured
               home may be exchanged or replaced by another HUD Code manufactured home, provided
               the newly located residential unit is owner-occupied.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 31.7, 3-21-2005)"
Secs. 42-811—42-830.,Reserved.,NULL
ARTICLE XII.,LANDSCAPE STANDARDS,"Footnotes:  --- (22) ---
            
            Editor's note—
               
                  Ord. No. 2015-005, § 1, adopted April 20, 2015
                  
               , renumbered art. VII as art. XII. See editor's note at beginning of this chapter."
Sec. 42-831.,Purpose.,"It is the purpose of this article to establish certain regulations pertaining to landscaping
               within the city. These regulations provide standards and criteria for new landscaping
               and the retention of existing trees, which are intended to:

                  (1)

                  Promote the value of property, enhance the welfare, and improve the physical appearance
                  of the city;

                  (2)

                  Reduce the negative effects of glare, noise, erosion and sedimentation caused by expanses
                  of impervious and unvegetated surfaces within the urban environment; and

                  (3)

                  Preserve and improve the natural and urban environment by recognizing that the use
                  of landscaping elements and retention of existing trees can contribute to the processes
                  of air purification, oxygen regeneration, groundwater recharge, abatement of noise,
                  glare and heat, provision of habitats for wildlife, and enhance the overall beauty
                  of the city:

                  a.

                  Except as stated in section 42-839, landscaping for single-family, manufactured home subdivision and two-family residential
                  uses, this article establishes landscaping requirements only in zoning districts C-1,
                  C-2, M-1, M-2, IN and all specific uses that specify that the requirements of this
                  article be met. Single-family, manufactured home subdivision and two-family residential
                  uses shall be required to conform to the requirements of section 42-839, only.

                  b.

                  Nonresidential uses located within the SF-1, SF-2, TF, MF, MH-1, and MH-2 zoning districts,
                  which consist of principal structures, parking areas, and signage, shall be required
                  to comply with the requirement contained in this article.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.1, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-832.,Definitions.,"The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:

               Artificial plants means a manufactured or assembled representation of live plant material constructed
               from manmade material for the purpose of closely resembling live plant material and
               to be used as a substitute to live plant material.

               Caliper means the diameter of the trunk of a tree measured 12 inches above the ground.

               Canopy tree means a perennial woody plant single or multiple trunk, contributing to the uppermost
               spreading branch layer of a forest and may be commonly referred to as a shade tree.

               Development means the changing of the existing topography in order to promote the construction
               of structures or infrastructure to accommodate any improvements necessary to erect
               facilities for dwelling or commercial or industrial uses resulting in developed property.

               Grasses means thin and broad-bladed surface material typically planted from seed, sprigs,
               or plugs with the intention of providing a uniform and aesthetic ground cover very
               close to the surface of the ground.

               Groundcover means consists of low-growing, dense-spreading plants typically planted from containers.

               Hydromulch means a planting process by which seed, water, fertilizer, fiber mulch, and sometimes
               lime are blended together in a tank and applied onto a prepared lawn area. This process
               is also known as hydraulic mulch seed, hydromulching, and hydraseeding.

               Irrigation system means a method of conveyance and application of water to live plant material for
               the purpose of maintaining said plant material in a live and healthy condition.

               Landscaping means the planting, arranging, cultivating, and maintenance of live plant material
               in such a manner that said material is aesthetically pleasing and contributes to the
               overall design of a development site.

               Landscape area means and consists of an area included in and around a development site that has
               been planned to complement the development site with natural grass, ground cover,
               trees, or other natural plant materials.

               Shrubs consists of plants that grow vertically in a multi-branched growth pattern from the
               ground level to heights usually not to exceed six feet. These plants may be sculpted
               and trimmed to present aesthetic shapes and forms.

               Sod means grass and the part of the soil beneath it held together by its roots or another
               piece of thin material.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.2, 3-21-2005; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-010
                  
               , § 1, 5-21-2018)"
Sec. 42-833.,Events requiring compliance.,"Land uses not previously subject to landscaping requirements shall be required to
               comply with this article upon issuance of a building permit satisfying the conditions
               established by either subsection (1) or (2) this section:

                  (1)

                  Remodeling, alterations or additions for which a site plan is required under the terms
                  of this zoning chapter; or

                  (2)

                  Remodeling or alterations taking place within a 12-month period the total value of
                  which exceeds 25 percent of the valuation of property improvements (excluding land
                  value) as shown on the current county tax rolls.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.3, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-834.,Landscaping.,"Landscape installation is required as follows:

                  (1)

                  Landscaping of 20 percent of the total lot shall be required, unless credits are obtained
                  by additional plantings as set forth in section 42-837. Landscaping which includes the planting of new and the retention of existing shrubs,
                  trees, and flowering plants in excess of the minimum standards established in this
                  article, may not reduce the landscape requirement to less than ten percent of the
                  total lot area.

                  (2)

                  Where the construction is to be a single phase or multi-phase development, only the
                  area being constructed in the current phase shall be required to comply with the landscape
                  regulations. However, each phase will be required to meet the landscaping requirements
                  as it is being developed.

                  (3)

                  The use of native and adapted, drought-tolerant plants is encouraged to meet requirements
                  of this article.

                  (4)

                  Artificial plants or artificial turf are expressly prohibited.

                  (5)

                  An irrigation system must be provided with all landscape plans for nonresidential
                  development. Irrigation plans shall comply with the design standards set forth by
                  the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, in 30 Tex. Admin. Code ch. 344, Landscape
                  Irrigation.

                  (6)

                  The term ""ornamental tree"" shall be defined as a single- or multi-trunk tree with
                  a maximum height of approximately 30 feet and maximum crown diameter of approximately
                  30 feet, and a minimum height of approximately 20 feet and minimum crown diameter
                  of approximately 15 feet.

                  (7)

                  A minimum of 20 percent of total lot area must be devoted to landscaping. Grass, groundcover,
                  trees, shrubs, flowering and nonflowering plants, stonework, and water features may
                  all be used as components of required landscaping in conjunction with the following
                  minimum planting standards:

                  a.

                  Grass and/or groundcovers shall not be allowed to comprise over 90 percent of any
                  required landscape area.

                  b.

                  The credits listed in section 42-837 shall be used to calculate the area occupied by a tree or shrub. Trees and shrubs
                  used to comply with minimum landscape requirements shall not be credited towards area
                  reduction requirements set forth is section 42-837.

               (8)

               Grasses shall be installed by laying sod. Spreading grass seed or use of hydromulch
               is expressly prohibited.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.4, 3-21-2005; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-010
                  
               , § 2, 5-21-2018)"
Sec. 42-835.,Landscaping plan required.,"(a)

               The landscape plan may be prepared by the applicant or his designee. The landscape
               design is not required to be prepared by a registered or certified professional. Any
               required irrigation system must be designed in accordance with the standards of the
               Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, in 30 Tex. Admin. Code ch. 344, Landscape
               Irrigation.

               (b)

               The landscape plan may be submitted as a part of the site plan or as a separate submittal.
               However, a landscape plan meeting the requirements of this article shall be provided
               and approved prior to the issuance of a building permit.

               (c)

               The landscape plan shall contain the following information:

               (1)

               Scale of drawing;

               (2)

               Location of all trees to be preserved, method of preservation during the construction
               phase of development shall be approved by the director of community development;

               (3)

               Location of all plants and landscaping material to be used including paving, benches,
               screens, fountains, statues, or other landscape features;

               (4)

               Species of all plant material to be used;

               (5)

               Size of all plant material to be used;

               (6)

               Spacing of plant material where appropriate;

               (7)

               Layout and description of irrigation, sprinkler or water system, including placement
               of water sources;

               (8)

               Description of a plan that will be implemented to maintain the landscaping and other
               landscape features shown on the landscape plan;

               (9)

               Persons responsible for the preparation of the landscape plan.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.5, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-836.,Location criteria.,"(a)

               Not less than 40 percent of the total landscaping shall be located in the designated
               front yard.

               (b)

               In the M-1 and M-2 (manufacturing/industrial) districts only the front yard 40 percent
               of the total 20 percent shall be required. The rear and side yard landscape requirements
               may be waived upon submittal of a landscape plan showing other requirements.

               (c)

               All landscape material shall comply with visibility requirements of the city subdivision
               regulations.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.26, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-837.,Credits for landscape area reduction.,"Required landscape area may be reduced to less than the 20 percent specified by section 42-834. The application of credits shall not reduce the required landscape area to less
               than ten percent of the total lot area. Reduction of area may be achieved by planting
               additional trees, shrubs, and flowering plants. Area reduction credits may be granted
               in the following manner: Additional enhancement credit:

                  (1)

                  Three-inch tree, planted or saved, (trunk diameter measured 12 inches above grade):
                  200 sq. ft.

                  (2)

                  Six-inch tree, planted or saved, (trunk diameter measured 12 inches above grade):
                  400 sq. ft.

                  (3)

                  One shrub, less than five gallons: ten sq. ft.

                  (4)

                  One shrub, five gallons or greater: 25 sq. ft.

                  (5)

                  For each one square foot of drought tolerant area: two sq. ft.

                  a.

                  Total landscaping on a lot shall not be reduced through credits by more than 50 percent
                  of the landscaped area required.

                  b.

                  Drought tolerant area and methodology shall be clearly located and detailed on the
                  site plan.

                  c.

                  Area reduction credit, based on tree size, shall be granted for all saved trees regardless
                  of species.

                  d.

                  Unless otherwise approved by the planning director, area reduction credit for newly
                  planted trees shall only be granted for the following:

                  Canopy trees

                     Bald cypress

                     Bigtooth maple

                     Bur oak

                     Caddo maple

                     Chinese pistache

                     Lacebark elm

                     Osage orange

                     Pecan

                     Shumard oak

                     Southern live oak

                     Southern magnolia

                     Texas red oak

                  Ornamental trees

                     Afghan pine

                     Crape myrtle

                     Dogwood

                     Eastern red cedar

                     Eve's necklace

                     Flowering crabapple

                     Forest pansy redbud

                     Little gem magnolia

                     Japanese maple

                     Mexican plumb

                     Oklahoma redbud

                     Ornamental pear

                     Western soapberry

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.7, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-842.,Nonconforming uses and/or structures.,"All uses that were in existence at the time of the adoption of this article, which
               do not meet the landscape requirements will be considered legal nonconforming. These
               nonconforming uses/structures will be subject to article VI of this chapter, unless
               otherwise provided for herein.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.12, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-838.,Installation and maintenance.,"(a)

               All required landscaped area shall be permanently landscaped with living plant material,
               and shall have either have an irrigation system installed or shall be accessible to
               a hose bib, faucet, or other water source on the same lot or tract. Synthetic or artificial
               lawn or plant material shall not he used to satisfy the landscape requirements.

               (b)

               Landscaped areas shall be kept free of trash, litter, weeds, and other such material
               or plants not a part of the landscaping,

               (c)

               All plant materials shall be maintained in a healthy and growing condition as is appropriate
               for the season of the year. Maintenance shall include mowing, watering, trimming,
               pruning, etc.

               (d)

               Plant materials which die shall be replaced with plant material of similar variety
               size within 90 days, with a one-time extension not exceeding 90 days being provided
               upon approval of the director of community development or his designee.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.8, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-839.,"Landscaping for single-family, manufactured home subdivision and two-family residential uses.","The landscaping requirements set forth in this article shall apply to SF-1, SF-2,
               TF and MH-2 residential districts.

                  (1)

                  Lots shall have a minimum landscaping requirement of one canopy tree located in any
                  required front yard.

                  (2)

                  Required canopy trees shall be a minimum of three-caliper inches.

                  (3)

                  Existing trees of equal or greater size within the front yard area may be counted
                  toward this requirement.

                  (4)

                  In cases when the applicant can show that required trees cannot reasonably be placed
                  on the lot due to size, configuration or amenities, the director of community development
                  or his designee may reduce the required number of trees to a number that can reasonably
                  be accommodated on the subject lot.

                  (5)

                  Grasses shall be installed by laying sod. Spreading grass seed or use of hydromulch
                  is expressly prohibited.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.9, 3-21-2005; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-010
                  
               , § 3, 5-21-2018)"
Sec. 42-840.,Landscaping of parking lots.,"It is the purpose of this section to require incorporation of landscaping into the
               design and construction of parking areas while maintaining standards necessary for
               safe parking and maneuvering space. Within parking lots, landscaping shall be provided
               as follows:

                  (1)

                  New trees from the approved tree list contained in section 42-837.

                  (2)

                  Parking lot landscaping shall be provided as specified by Table 1, Summary of Landscape
                  Requirements for Nonresidential Uses.

                  (3)

                  Unless otherwise approved by the director of community development, trees planted
                  to satisfy parking lot landscape requirements shall be chosen from the species specified
                  by section 42-837.

                  (4)

                  Existing, on-site trees of any species that are of six inches minimum caliper, measured
                  12 inches above grade may be counted towards landscaping requirements established
                  for parking lots.

                  (5)

                  An irrigation system must be provided with all landscape plans. Irrigation plans shall
                  comply with the design standards set forth by the Texas Commission on Environmental
                  Quality, in 30 Tex. Admin. Code ch. 344, Landscape Irrigation.

                  (6)

                  Landscaping adjacent to public rights-of-way:

                  a.

                  A five-foot landscaped strip shall be provided adjacent to all public and private
                  rights-of-way on lots with an area greater than one acre, but less than five acres.

                  b.

                  A ten-foot landscaped strip shall be provided adjacent to all public and private rights-of-way
                  on lots with an area greater than five acres.

                  c.

                  Within landscaped strips adjacent to rights-of-way, landscaping shall be required
                  as follows:

                  1.

                  One canopy tree or two ornamental trees, for each 60 linear feet of frontage, at a
                  minimum three-inch caliper.

                  2.

                  An average density of one, five-gallon evergreen shrub for each five linear feet of
                  frontage provided, however, that any landscaping materials that will be located within
                  ten feet of any public right-of-way shall not, at ultimate growth, exceed 30 inches
                  in height above street grade unless otherwise permitted by the city. Shrubs may be
                  grouped to provide variety in design.

                  3.

                  A landscaped berm may be provided in lieu of required shrubs. The berm must be an
                  average height of three feet, hut in no case less than 18 inches, above the average
                  grade of the street and parking lot curbs, and must be planted with evergreen groundcover
                  and/or shrubs to provide full plant coverage of the berm surface area. A variation
                  in height of the berm is encouraged. Shrubs may be grouped to provide variety in design.
                  The combined height of the berm and ultimate height of plant materials shall not exceed
                  30 inches in height from street grade in any area that is within ten feet of a public
                  right-of-way.

                  (7)

                  Parking lot interior.

                  a.

                  Developments with an area less than five acres shall be designed with a maximum of
                  20 parking spaces between landscape islands. Parking aisles of 20 or more spaces in
                  length shall terminate in landscape islands.

                  b.

                  Developments with an area five acres or greater shall provide one 62 sq. ft. landscaped
                  island for each 12 parking spaces.

                  c.

                  Within parking lot interiors, landscaping shall be provided as follows:

                  1.

                  One canopy tree or one ornamental tree at a minimum three inches in caliper.

                  2.

                  Grass, evergreen ground cover or shrubs to a maximum ultimate height of 30 inches
                  from parking lot grade, of a type that will provide full coverage of the landscape
                  island shall be provided. Planted area shall be exclusive of the area within 18-inch
                  radius from each required tree.

                  3.

                  Areas that are not covered with live plant materials shall be permanently maintained
                  with natural mulch materials such as hard wood, pine bark, or other typical mulch
                  materials.

                  d.

                  Exception: accessible parking. The design and location of accessible parking spaces
                  shall comply with the State of Texas Architectural Barriers Act. A landscape island
                  may be omitted at an aisle termination for the purpose of providing required access
                  to accessible parking spaces.

                  e.

                  Landscape material which is located within the interior of a parking lot shall not
                  create a visibility obstruction. A visibility obstruction within a parking lot is
                  defined as landscaping between 24 inches in height and seven feet in height. No shrubs
                  shall exceed 24 inches in height. Tree canopies shall be at least seven feet in height.

                  f.

                  For large existing trees located in the parking area, which are being retained and
                  incorporated into the landscaping plan, an appropriate aeration system or an alternative
                  method of protecting the tree must be provided and detailed in the landscape plan.

                  g.

                  For each landscaped island of at least ten feet by 20 feet located within a parking
                  lot, credit for four parking spaces will be provided. Credit for parking spaces cannot
                  reduce the overall parking requirement by more than ten percent or to less than ten
                  total spaces.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.10, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-841.,Certificate of occupancy.,"(a)

               All landscaping shall be completed and installed in accordance with the proved landscape
               plan within 90 days of a certificate of occupancy being granted. A one-time extension
               not to exceed 90 days may be granted upon approval of the planning and zoning commission.

               (b)

               If landscaping requirements have not been satisfied within the 90-day period from
               when the certificate of occupancy is issued, the property owner shall be considered
               in violation of this article.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.11, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-843.,Landscaping of developed sites.,"(a)

               When the owners of structures on sites that do not comply with the landscape requirements
               of sections 42-834 through 42-839 are, under the terms of section 42-833, required to provide landscaping, the minimum standards in this section shall apply.

               (b)

               A minimum of ten percent of total lot area must be devoted to landscaping. Grass,
               groundcover, trees, shrubs, flowering and nonflowering plants, stonework, and water
               features may all be used as components of required landscaping in conjunction with
               the following minimum planting standards:

               (1)

               Grass and/or groundcovers shall not be allowed to comprise over 90 percent of any
               required landscaped area. Grass shall be installed by laying sod. Spreading grass
               seed or use of hydromulch is expressly prohibited.

               (2)

               The credits listed in section 42-837 shall be used to calculate the area occupied by a tree, or shrub. Trees and shrubs
               used to comply with minimum landscape requirements shall not be credited toward area
               reduction requirements set forth is section 42-837.

               (3)

               No additional area reduction credits shall be allowed for landscape required under
               the terms of section 42-842.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.13, 3-21-2005; Ord. No.
               
                  2018-010
                  
               , § 4, 5-21-2018)"
Sec. 42-844.,Modification of landscape requirements.,"The director of community development or a designee may approve minor variations in
               the location of required landscape materials due to unusual topographic constraints,
               setting requirements, preservation of existing stands of native trees or similar conditions,
               or to maintain consistency of established front yard setbacks. These minor changes
               may vary the location of required landscape materials, but may not reduce the amount
               of required landscape area or the required amount of landscape materials. The landscape
               plan shall be submitted to the planning director or a designee and shall specify the
               modifications requested and present a justification for such modifications.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.14, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-845.,Relief from landscaping requirements.,"The planning and zoning commission and city council may, upon completion of the following,
               grant relief from landscaping requirements in situations where the individual circumstances,
               such as the presence of existing facilities or unusual topography, limit the applicant's
               ability to comply with the landscaping requirements:

                  (1)

                  Application for relief from landscaping requirements may be made by any property owner,
                  or other person having a proprietary interest in the property for which relief is
                  requested.

                  (2)

                  Applications for relief from landscaping requirements shall be made in writing and
                  shall specify the property conditions or considerations that make the requested relief
                  necessary.

                  (3)

                  Applications for relief from landscaping requirements shall include a proposed landscape
                  plan, drawn to scale, illustrating the area available for landscaping and specifying
                  proposed plantings by size, type and location. The proposed plan shall indicate the
                  means by which irrigation will be provided and provide a phasing schedule for completion
                  of the plan.

                  (4)

                  Application for relief from landscaping requirements shall be accompanied by an application
                  fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by resolution of the city council
                  from time to time.

                  (5)

                  Applications for relief from landscaping requirements shall be presented to the planning
                  and zoning commission. Applications for relief shall not require a public hearing.
                  The planning and zoning commission, after considering a proposed plan, may recommend
                  that it be approved as presented, approved with modification, or denied.

                  (6)

                  Following consideration by the planning and zoning commission, a proposed landscape
                  plan shall be forwarded to the city council with the commission's recommendation.
                  The city council shall act to approve a plan, as presented, approve it with modifications,
                  or deny approval.

                  (7)

                  City council's action regarding a proposed landscape plan shall be documented as follows:

                  a.

                  If approved, the city manager shall sign two copies of the approved plan. One copy
                  shall be returned to the applicant. The second copy shall be retained as permanent
                  record by the city.

                  b.

                  If approved with modification, the applicant shall amend the plan to reflect the required
                  modifications. The applicant shall return two copies of the amended plan to the city
                  within 14 calendar days of the city council's action to approve the plan with modifications.
                  The city manager shall sign two copies of the amended plan. One copy shall be returned
                  to the applicant. The second copy shall be retained as permanent record by the city.

                  c.

                  If disapproved, the city manager shall sign two copies of the plan that have been
                  marked as being disapproved. A letter prepared by the director of community development,
                  stating the reasons for disapproval shall be attached to each signed plan. One copy
                  of the plan shall be returned to the applicant. The second copy shall be retained
                  as permanent record by the city.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.15, 3-21-2005)"
Sec. 42-846.,Landscaping in the MF and MH-1 districts.,"The following minimum requirements shall be observed for development located within
               the MF and MH-1 districts. sections 42-833 through 42-842 do not apply to the development within the MF and MH-1 districts.

                  (1)

                  Landscape buffer of 20 feet will be required along any property line abutting a SF-1,
                  SF-2, MH-2 or TF residential district.

                  (2)

                  Not less than 20 percent of the gross site area shall be devoted to open space, including
                  required yards and buffer areas. Open space shall not include areas covered by structures,
                  parking areas, driveways, and internal streets.

                  (3)

                  Landscaping consisting of the planting of new or retention of existing shrubs, trees,
                  and flowering plants shall be placed in the yard facing any public roadway.

                  (4)

                  Method of irrigation must be indicated on site plan.

                  (5)

                  All landscaping shall be permanently maintained. Should any plant material used in
                  any landscaping required under this article die, the owner of the property shall have
                  90 days after notification from the city to obtain and install a suitable replacement
                  plant material. Landscaped area shall be kept fee of trash, litter, weeds and other
                  material or plants not a part of the landscaping.

                  (6)

                  An irrigation system must be provided with all landscape plans for multi-residential
                  development. Irrigation plans shall comply with the design standards set forth by
                  the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, in 30 Tex. Admin. Code ch. 344, Landscape
                  Irrigation.

               (Ord. No. 2005-009, § 40.16, 3-21-2005; Ord. No. 2006-036, 8-21-2006)"
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE 2008 CODE,NULL,Content is too large for cell.
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE ORDINANCES,NULL,Content is too large for cell.
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE,NULL,Content is too large for cell.
